SUSTAINABILITY Driven 2 0 2 4 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Overview 3 Water 17 Engage Stakeholders and Communities 32 Appendix 46 MPC at a Glance 3 Spill Prevention 19 Building Relationships 33 About This Report 47 The Business of MPC 3 Emergency Preparedness 21 We Are Listening 33 Performance Data 47 A Message from Our CEO 4 Reducing, Reusing and Recycling Waste 22 Connecting with Communities 33 EEO-1 Report 57 2024 Sustainability Highlights 5 Air Quality and Emissions 23 Engaging with Tribal Neighbors 34 Glossary 57 Our Approach to Sustainability 6 Community Investments 35 2024 Sustainability-Related Targets 6 Empower Our People 24 Responsible Supply Chain Management 37 Additional Resources 58 Stakeholder Engagement and Shared Value 7 A Culture of Safety 25 Respecting Human Rights 38 Identification of Sustainability Topics 7 Safety   A Shared Responsibility 25 Choosing Safe and Innovative Contractors 25 Execute with Integrity 39 Advance Environmental Stewardship 8 Process Safety Management 25 Accountable and Transparent Governance 40 Lowering Our Carbon Footprint 9 Enhanced Safety Programs 26 Our Board of Directors 40 Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 9 Engaged and Energized Workforce 27 Sustainability Governance 41 Refining Scope 3 GHG Emissions 9 Core Values 27 Operational Excellence Management System 42 Capital Allocation 9 Creating an Inclusive Culture 27 Enterprise Risk Management 42 Focus on Energy 10 Building a Talented Workforce 28 Compliance and Ethics 43 Methane Emissions 11 Investing In Our Employees 29 Political Contributions and Advocacy 44 Renewables and Emerging Technologies 12 Employee Training and Development 30 Cybersecurity and Privacy 45 Conserving Natural Resources 14 Health and Wellness 31 Biodiversity 14 Employee Engagement 31 On the cover: MPC employee at our MPLX Burley, Idaho, terminal. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 3 MPC AT A GLANCE THE BUSINESS OF MPC Through our 138-year history, MPC has become a leading, integrated, downstream and midstream energy company. We operate one of the nation s largest refining systems, where we process a wide variety of crude oils and condensate from various suppliers to produce numerous refined products. We sell these products to wholesale market customers, buyers on the spot market, independent entrepreneurs 138 years  3 million who operate primarily Marathon  branded outlets and direct dealers who operate locations mainly under the ARCO  brand. Our renewable diesel assets process renewable feedstocks into renewable diesel that, similarly, is sold to wholesale marketers, buyers on the spot in the energy business, MPC s master limited partnership barrels per calendar day of market, and direct dealers who operate locations mainly under the ARCO  brand. innovating and evolving formed to own, operate, develop crude oil refining capacity since 1887 and acquire midstream energy Our midstream operations gather, transport, store and distribute crude oil, refined products, including renewable diesel, and other hydrocarboninfrastructure assets based products via refining logistics assets, pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges. We also gather, process and transport natural gas and transport, fractionate, store and sell natural gas liquids (NGLs).   To view a map of our operations, please visit the Operations page of our website. We re in the Business of Accelerating Life s Possibilities  12.4 billion 348  2.8 billion The energy and products we produce support industrial and residential needs across a broad value chain, including: standard cubic feet per day vessels and barges gallons of renewable fuels of natural gas processing owned and operated delivered in 2024 capacity through marine business Fuel for cars, trucks, buses, Fuel for steam and electricity Fuel for outdoor heaters, grills, aircraft, trains and ships generation, heating and cooling cooktops and lanterns  21,000 559  40 million miles of pipeline owned, transport trucks owned barrels of terminal storage leased or with ownership and operated capacity interest Ingredients for other product manufacturing, such as plastics, fertilizers, synthetic fibers, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals,  8,900 2 strong  13,550 solvents and aerosol propellant brands North American retail and rail tank cars marketing locations Marathon  and ARCO  Asphalt for roads and roofing Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 4 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO At Marathon and MPLX, accelerating life s business, the International Liquid Terminals The dedication of our people makes our possibilities is the mission we strive to Association recognized MPLX s Terminals accomplishments possible, and we strive to  This report illustrates the deliver each day. That includes operating all organization with its Platinum Safety Award for provide meaningful, growth-oriented career facets of our business responsibly. opportunities, rewards, and recognition that achieving a peer-leading 2024 OSHA progress we have made in support the long-term health and wellness of recordable incident rate. In this Sustainability Report, we explain the our employees and their families. We were connection between what we do   the advancing our sustainability goals While we are proud of our safety proud to be recognized in 2025 as one of critical work of providing energy   and how accomplishments, we are not satisfied and America s most just companies by JUST we do it. We consider the how to be just as and demonstrates our objective to work each day to demonstrate this Capital, which ranked us as industry best in important as the what, which is why unwavering commitment. Continuing to terms of how we invest in our employees. continually challenge ourselves to sustainability is one of the criteria we use to strengthen the effectiveness of our safety Our efforts to attract and retain the best measure our success. employees start early, often beginning long programs and our safety performance is nonbe a stronger, better company.  before full-time employment. In 2024 we negotiable. Safety is not a set of rules that we We believe sustainability means advancing welcomed more than 450 interns and cofollow, but rather a culture that we work to environmental stewardship, empowering our ops, who not only gained valuable uphold each day. people in a variety of ways, engaging experience, but also ranked Marathon highly, Maryann T. Mannen stakeholders and communities to create As with our goals to achieve even better placing us among the top 100 internship shared value, and executing our work with President and CEO, MPC and MPLX safety performance, we continue to push programs on National Intern Day. the highest degree of integrity. Throughout ourselves when it comes to environmental The communities where we work and live this report, we have endeavored to provide stewardship. In these pages, we describe a are among the key areas we support across you with background, examples and data number of programs and initiatives and our company. Building relationships that that demonstrate and support our provide a wide variety of metrics that show create shared value with our neighbors is of commitment to sustainability and continuous our progress. In 2024, Designated critical importance, and we invest our time improvement. Environmental Incidents (DEI)   a metric we and resources accordingly. Our employees use to track the number and severity of One of the primary cornerstones of our reported over 57,000 volunteer hours with incidents   were the lowest in six years, and sustainability commitment is our Core Values charitable organizations in 2024 alone, and we reduced the most severe DEIs more than   the guiding framework for the decisions our dollar contributions to philanthropic 30% from 2023. we make and the actions we take every day. organizations   from Marathon, MPLX, our In 2024, we confirmed our Core Values of We have established ambitious goals to employees and fundraising partners   Safety   Environmental Stewardship, reduce our use of fresh water, decrease our amounted to approximately  34 million last Integrity, Inclusion, and Collaboration. We methane emissions intensity, and lower our year. also added the value of Excellence. While greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity, all We have been in business for 138 years, but Excellence has always been a part of the of which we have progressed through as you will see from this publication, our way we work at Marathon and MPLX, we disciplined programs and the diligent efforts commitment to Excellence drives us to keep formally added it to our Core Values to of our people. Our Scope 1 and 2 GHG making progress and to always look for our emphasize our drive for exceptional emissions intensity is down 28% from our next opportunity to innovate and improve. performance in all we do, our continuous 2014 baseline, freshwater withdrawal intensity This report illustrates the progress we have improvement approach, and the rigorous is down 18% from a 2016 baseline, and we made in advancing our sustainability goals expectations and accountability by which we have reduced methane emissions intensity an and demonstrates our objective to measure our results. impressive 59% from 2016 levels. continually challenge ourselves to be a As we strive for Excellence in all areas of our Marathon refineries continue to be peerstronger, better company. business, our priority is safety. Nothing is leading in their energy efficiency; collectively, more important than the health and safety of we have earned more U.S. EPA ENERGY the men and women who do our important STAR  recognitions than all other refiners Sincerely, work, and we invest in empowering our combined. Our Bluestone gas processing people with the resources, skills, training and facility in Pennsylvania became the first and authority to make the right, safe choices only facility in the U.S. natural gas processing every day. Our focus on safety continues to sector to achieve the EPA s ENERGY STAR be recognized industry wide. As just one Challenge for Industry, decreasing its energy example, the American Fuel   Petrochemical Maryann T. Mannen intensity almost 15% in one year. These Manufacturers association awarded four U.S. advances in our energy efficiency not only President and CEO, MPC and MPLX refineries its top safety recognition for 2024 reduce our environmental footprint, but they   the Distinguished Safety Award   and also reduce our fuel consumption, three of the four awards were to Marathon representing substantial cost savings. refineries. Similarly, in our midstream Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 5 2024 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS  2.8 billion gallons of renewable fuels delivered   59% reduction making MPC one of the largest marketers American Fuel   of renewable fuels in the U.S. in methane emissions intensity since 2016 Petrochemical U.S. EPA Manufacturers ENERGY STAR   600 million Distinguished Safety Partner of the Year Sustained gallons of renewable fuels produced   Award Excellence Award for five years in a row a company record presented to three refineries  390,000 tonnes 1 million  of CO captured from operations employee training hours 28% 2   34 million and joint ventures reduction invested in communities by MPC, MPLX, our employees and in companywide 18% reduction fundraising partners Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity in freshwater withdrawal since 2014 intensity since 2016 Proudly recognized among the International Liquid Named to the 8,825 acres JUST 100   Top 100 Internship Terminals Association Texan by Nature 20 of pipeline rights of way recognized as one of Programs Platinum Safety Award list for leadership in advancing converted to sustainable America s most just conservation and sustainability in Texas landscapes since 2021 by National Intern Day companies by JUST Capital presented to MPLX Terminals Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 6 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 2024 SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED TARGETS At MPC and MPLX, our commitment to sustainability means working to create shared value with our stakeholders as Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Intensity Methane Emissions Intensity we produce affordable, reliable energy. We do this by advancing environmental stewardship, empowering our people, Our suite of targets helps (tonnes CO e/thousand boe input) (methane-scf/natural gas input-scf) engaging with stakeholders and communities, and executing with integrity. Our sustainability-driven approach 2 measure our sustainability supports our relentless commitment to continuously improve as we contribute to an evolving energy industry. ò 2035 Goal ò 2030 Goal ò Progress ò 2030 Goal ò Progress progress. We assess progress 28% 59% with these targets on an annual basis and may modify them or adopt new metrics as Advance we work towards achieving We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint our goals or new sources of and implementing practices that conserve natural information come to light. 30% BY 75% ENVIRONMENTAL resources and reduce environmental impacts. 2030 In 2024, we increased our STEWARDSHIP AND Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity target to a 38% 38% BY reduction by 2035 from 2014 2035 levels. This extends our previous goal of 30% by 2030 from 2014 levels. We prioritize safety and are dedicated to Empower cultivating a safe, collaborative and inclusive After thorough evaluation, we 30% REDUCTION of Scope 1 and 2 GHG 75% REDUCTION of MPLX methane work environment that supports the growth and have recalibrated our emissions intensity by 2030 and 38% emissions intensity by 2030 from 2016 levels success of our people. approach to Scope 3 GHG OUR PEOPLE REDUCTION by 2035 from 2014 levels emissions reductions. Please see Page 9 for information regarding our commitment to Biodiversity   Sustainable Landscapes Freshwater Withdrawal Intensity transparent Scope 3 (acres) (megaliters/million boe input) Category 11 GHG emissions ò 2025 Goal ò Progress ò 2030 Goal ò Progress reporting. Engage 18% 8,825 acres We are committed to building relationships in our   For more information on the communities, consistently pursuing opportunities underlying data for our targets, STAKEHOLDERS to create shared value with our stakeholders. see our Performance Data on Page 47. AND COMMUNITIES 20%  10,000 acres Execute We are committed to integrating sustainability in our decision-making and upholding accountable and transparent governance. WITH INTEGRITY Apply sustainable landscapes to 20% REDUCTION of freshwater withdrawal  10,000 ACRES ( 50%) of compatible intensity by 2030 from 2016 levels MPL rights of way by the end of 2025 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND SHARED VALUE IDENTIFICATION OF SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS At MPC and MPLX, we strive to build shared value with our stakeholders, including employees, shareholders, customers, business In 2025, we updated our sustainability reporting assessment to prioritize sustainability reporting topics based on external developments and partners, government agencies and officials, and the communities where we live and work. Our sustainability strategy is guided by stakeholder feedback. Consistent with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Oil and Gas ongoing dialogue to inform our understanding of the issues and trends facing our company and industry. We consistently seek Sector Standard, we continued to focus on topics that reflect significant sustainability impacts and enable the assessment of our company stakeholder perspectives and incorporate their feedback and insights, as appropriate, into our approach to sustainability. performance. We engaged both external and internal stakeholders to understand their perspectives on a broad range of identified topics. Surveys were conducted with community members, customers, government officials, employees and business partners. We had extensive engagement 2024 BY THE NUMBERS with shareholders, including outreach to shareholders representing 71% of our outstanding shares and investor engagements with Business shareholders representing 42% of our outstanding shares. Shareholder feedback provides our Board and leadership with valuable insights Our People Shareholders Customers Communities Governments Partners on our business strategy and performance, corporate responsibility, executive compensation, sustainability initiatives and many other topics. We incorporated insights from these recent engagements with industry benchmarks, government regulations, voluntary initiatives, and an  4 42%  3.6   9   34  15.7 analysis of online news by Datamaran . The prioritized topics closely resemble our previous analysis in 2024, with an elevated focus on BILLION  OF SHARES MILLION BILLION MILLION BILLION  cybersecurity and energy management. Workforce health and safety remains a primary concern for all. OUTSTANDING paid in wages and barrels per day of paid to 9,000  invested in the paid in taxes, participated in benefits to 18,000  refined products sold suppliers and communities in which contributing to engagements with employees to 5,900  customers business partners we operate through national, state and Sustainability Reporting Topics1 our company for goods and company contributions, local economies² services¹ our employees and fundraising partners Critical incident risk management ò Workforce health and safety ò HOW WE ENGAGE GHG emissions ò   CEO communications   Annual Shareholder   Company events and   Business partner   Community Advisory   Advocacy Spills ò   Code of Business Meeting meetings reviews Panels and Councils   Collaboration on ò Energy management Conduct   Engagement with   Global, regional and   Contract   Community engagement community analysts and portfolio local industry events, management and board representation investment projects ò Cybersecurity   Employee managers forums and 1 Sustainability topics identified experience surveys   Sourcing process   Community hotlines   Facility tours Climate change risks and opportunities ò   Engagement with conferences ò Water use and conservation here should be considered   Employee networks   Strategic   Community surveys   Industry and trade distinct from concepts of investor stewardship   Working groups to Air quality and emissions ò partnership association materiality in financial   Integrity Helpline   Company and employee teams advance best ò Renewable fuels management representation reporting and under securities contributions, company   Performance   Investor presentations practices   Supplier audits match programs and   Policy development ò Process safety laws. Sustainability topics management according to GRI consider and conferences company-led fundraisers   Supplier Code of   Regulatory and impacts an organization may   Regular employee   Press releases Conduct   Employment fairs permitting compliance ò Business ethics and accountability have on the broader economy, communications environment and society and   SEC filings   Supplier diversity   Facilitation of community   Regulatory audits   Safety meetings factors viewed as important to ò Ecological impacts program events stakeholders.   Training and career ò Transparency   Supplier recognition   Facility tours development ò Stakeholder engagement awards   Focus groups   Wellness programs ò Governance structures and mechanisms ò Waste and hazardous materials   Landowner events ò Understanding the legal and regulatory environment   Sponsorships ò Human rights   Websites, news and ò Employee diversity and inclusion social media ò Management of local impacts ò Innovation and technology ò Supply chain management 1 Excludes crude/feedstock purchases and third-party logistics payments. ò Human capital management 2 Includes sales, use, excise taxes. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 8 Advance ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint and implementing practices that conserve natural resources and reduce environmental impacts. Lowering Our Carbon Footprint 9 Conserving Natural Resources 14 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 9 LOWERING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT Refining Scope 3 GHG Emissions Capital Allocation We have made demonstrable progress reducing the carbon footprint of our operations through energyScope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Intensity As a petroleum refiner, MPC s Scope 3 Category 11 GHG emissions At MPC and MPLX, we invest to strengthen the competitive position of efficiency improvements that enhance the performance and (tonnes CO e/thousand boe input) 2 (use of sold products) are primarily related to production volumes our assets and increase our resilience as we allocate growth capital resiliency of our assets. We work to optimize the operations ò 2035 Goal ò 2030 Goal ò Progress from our refineries. Since 2020, we have indefinitely idled one between traditional and low-carbon investments. Today, we are focused of our assets, make select investments in renewables and petroleum refinery and repurposed two other refineries to produce on optimizing our core refining and logistics portfolio and expanding our lower-carbon products, and continue to expand our natural renewable diesel, a product that reduces GHG emissions in hard-tonatural gas and NGL business. gas business. 28% abate transportation sectors. Those measures have collectively Our risk-based capital allocation strategy is designed to ensure strict Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions reduced our absolute Scope 3 Category 11 GHG emissions by 5% capital discipline and long-term competitive returns for our shareholders. from a 2019 baseline. Going forward, we will continue to provide We require higher return-on-investment (ROI) thresholds for projects transparency around our Scope 3 Category 11 GHG emissions, while In 2020, we adopted a companywide Scope 1 and 2 GHG with greater financial and regulatory uncertainty than those with more transitioning from an absolute emissions reduction target. emissions intensity reduction target to reduce our intensity 30% BY stable cash flow and lower regulatory risk. 30% below 2014 levels by 2030. As we are on track to 2030   Please see Page 30 of our annual Perspectives on Climate-Related MPC s capital allocation can be broken down into sustaining capital and achieve our Scope 1 and 2 goal prior to 2030, we extended Scenarios report for detailed information on our reduction efforts, factors AND growth capital. Sustaining capital underpins our commitment to safety, and strengthened our commitment by setting a new target impacting the pace and magnitude of reductions, and our recalibrated reliability and environmental performance across our assets and of a 38% reduction of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 38% BY approach. represents approximately 30% of MPC s anticipated 2025 capital intensity from 2014 levels by 2035. 2035 spend.2 The remainder is growth capital, which we invest in a disciplined The metric is computed by aggregating the Scope 1 GHG fashion in areas that we believe will enhance our competitiveness. Of emissions (direct emissions from our operations) and Scope Absolute Scope 3 Category 11 GHG Emissions MPC s anticipated 2025 growth capital, approximately 12% is allocated 2 GHG emissions (indirect emissions from the electricity (million tonnes CO e) to lower-carbon projects which, for example, can help lower GHG 2 and steam we purchase to support our business activities Actual % Change emissions at our refineries or represent investments in renewables and across all our organizations) and dividing that figure by the emerging technologies. The remainder of growth capital is aimed at TARGET: 30% REDUCTION of Scope 1 and 2 500  % total manufacturing inputs. projects that will primarily occur at our large, competitively advantaged GHG emissions intensity by 2030 and facilities to help position MPC well into the future. Because our manufacturing sites entail a wide range of 38% REDUCTION by 2035 from 2014 levels inputs, including but not limited to, crude oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids and renewable feedstocks, we normalize (10)% these manufacturing inputs on a common energy unit known as barrel of oil equivalent (boe). Companywide Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Intensity We are focused on reducing our GHG emissions through (tonnes CO e/thousand boe input) multiple initiatives, including driving efficiency through our 2 300 (20)% Focus on Energy program, the expansion of our MPLX 1 Actual Goal Trajectory 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Natural Gas and NGL Services business, and the optimization of our renewable fuels production. 30 Some notable progress related to our Scope 1 and 2 GHG 1 2020 was not representative of a normal year because production was impacted by COVID-19 emissions: lockdowns.   We have achieved a 28% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 2 Does not include MPLX capital allocation. GHG emissions intensity compared to our 2014 baseline, representing 10 consecutive years of progress.   Since 2019, our companywide Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions have decreased by over 10% on an absolute 20 basis. 2014 2017 2020 2023 2026 2029 2032 2035 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 10 Garyville refinery s Focus on Energy steam challenge was recognized as one of U.S. EPA s We have achieved energy-efficiency improvements, GHG Improving Energy Efficiency Top Projects Energy Efficiency Across Midstream reductions and costs savings through our Focus on Energy Through the success of our Focus on Energy program, program, including avoiding the equivalent of over 1.3 billion in the U.S. industrial To build upon the success of our refinery-specific Focus on Energy MPC has been recognized by the U.S. EPA for our Btu/hour of energy use, resulting in savings over  28 million sector during the 2024 program, MPC expanded Focus on Energy to various MPLX facilities. leadership in industrial energy efficiency by winning the in 2024. This is roughly the same amount of energy used by ENERGY STAR  Industrial The ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry is a national call to action to 2024 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year   Sustained over 80,000 homes or 140,000 gasoline-powered Partner Meeting. Excellence Award. ENERGY STAR is a voluntary SPOTLIGHT ON improve the energy efficiency of America s manufacturers by 10% or passenger vehicles in one year. more. By taking the ENERGY STAR Challenge, manufacturing sites set a industrial energy management program managed by the With Focus on Energy programs in place at all 13 of our Garyville Refinery goal to reduce their energy intensity by 10% within five years. MPLX U.S. EPA that aims to assist industry in improving energy refineries, we ve expanded these efforts to include our marked an industry first by entering the ENERGY STAR Challenge for efficiency and reducing environmental impact. renewable diesel facilities. In 2024, key performance Steam is used for many applications throughout a Industry in December 2022, and since, 12 terminals and one natural gas The Partner of the Year   Sustained Excellence Award indicators were developed for the Dickinson Renewable refinery, and optimizing its use is an important factor in plant achieved the challenge. is the highest level of recognition in the EPA s ENERGY Fuels facility and initial implementation began at the the management of energy costs. The Garyville refinery STAR program. To earn the award, companies must go Bluestone Gas Processing Facility Martinez Renewable Fuels facility. challenged itself to reduce fired steam generation by above and beyond the criteria for Partner of the Year 100,000 pounds-per-hour in 2024. The Garyville team The Bluestone natural gas plant in Pennsylvania has become the first and As a part of our Focus on Energy program, we have recognition by showing continuous improvement over exceeded that goal by recovering 129,000 pounds-peronly facility in the U.S. natural gas processing sector to achieve the EPA s dedicated energy coordinators at our facilities who: time in organizationwide energy savings and hour of steam in 2024. This amounts to more than  5 ENERGY STAR Challenge for Industry. Bluestone surpassed the   Conduct deep-dive studies to benchmark our refineries environmental performance, demonstrating best million in annual cost savings and over 45,000 metric requirement of lowering its energy intensity by 10% within a five-year against peers practices and actively promoting the ENERGY STAR tons of carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions per year. period. A 12-month rolling average of data showed that Bluestone s program.   Identify and track energy-operating parameters energy intensity decreased almost 15% from its established baseline. As a five-time EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year   The success of this initiative was driven by the refinery s Recognizing this significant accomplishment, Bluestone was provided the   Develop and implement energy-conservation road maps Sustained Excellence Award recipient, we are an active strategic focus on the education and active engagement opportunity to host an ENERGY STAR Industrial Showcase in October   Evaluate more efficient technologies participant in the program, sharing our strategies and of employees to create a collaborative environment 2024 to highlight its progress for stakeholders, legislators and members successes with other industrial companies. where all contributions are valued. Some examples of of other industries.   Consider energy efficiency in new project scopes initiatives that led to the success include: To build on the success of Bluestone, additional MPLX gas processing MPC ENERGY STAR 2024 Certified Refineries: facilities have been recently entered into the ENERGY STAR Challenge,   Implemented optimization strategies for process unit Í Anacortes, Washington operating temperatures and equipment sizing. namely the Houston, Pennsylvania, facility, which is the largest gas processing facility in Pennsylvania, and the Sherwood, West Virginia, Í Canton, Ohio   Maximized waste-heat steam generation by cleaning facility, which is the largest gas processing Í Garyville, Louisiana a unit heater convection system and repaired steam facility in the United States. leaks. Í Robinson, Illinois Our intention is to expand our industrial energy-efficiency Í St. Paul Park, Minnesota   Adjusted process unit valves to recover excess purge initiatives to additional facilities, steam. which will further reduce By promoting best practices and encouraging new company energy use and ideas, the Garyville refinery continues building upon strengthen the position efforts that have helped the site remain ENERGY STAR  of our assets. certified for 19 consecutive years. U.S. EPA ENERGY STAR  Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence Award for the fifth year in a row Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 11 Methane Emissions Focus on Methane In 2022, we expanded our methane emissions intensity MPLX Methane Emissions Intensity reduction target for MPLX to 75% below 2016 levels by 2030. Through MPLX s Focus on Methane program, we have implemented measures (methane-scf/natural gas input-scf) INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT The reduction target applies to MPLX Natural Gas and NGL that have achieved approximately 13,000 tonnes per year of methane emissions Services operations. Through 2024, we have achieved a 59% reductions and enhanced system efficiency relative to a 2016 baseline. reduction in our methane emissions intensity from 2016 levels. Actual Goal Trajectory In 2024, advanced technologies were deployed to enhance measurementSince the extension of our target, the U.S. EPA has issued Frequent and effective communication with our peers 0.040% informed emission inventories, improving accuracy and transparency. updates to its GHG reporting rules, which are effective for and academic institutions is a key element to Investments in these initiatives, coupled with expanded advocacy and industry 2025 emissions (to be reported in 2026). These updates achieving our methane intensity reduction engagement, have strengthened data-driven decision-making and reinforced included significantly higher emission factors for select aspirations. Sharing best practices with our peers and 0.030% MPLX s commitment to lowering our methane intensity. equipment, such as compressor engines due to methane slip. research partners allows MPLX to identify and 7 Methane slip refers to methane released into the atmosphere 5 % Reductions execute on the highest-priority opportunities for due to incomplete combustion in flares, heaters, and, most re d u MPLX FOCUS AREAS FOR METHANE achieved since emission detection and reduction technologies. A few 0.020% c tio REDUCTIONS 2016 (tonnes commonly, reciprocating engine and turbine exhaust. n of these industry groups include: per year) Extensive testing conducted by MPLX indicates that our actual Maintenance Venting and Other Controls   Appalachian Methane Initiative (AMI): Led by the engine performance generally resulted in lower emissions 0.010% We are optimizing maintenance venting to reduce emissions going to Energy Emissions Modeling and Data Lab   an than these revised EPA factors, but at rates higher than the the atmosphere, including using vapor recovery units and portable  5,000 initiative of the University of Texas, Colorado State factors used in the current rule. The data from our compressor flares. Additionally, newly constructed systems are designed with lower University, and the Colorado School of Mines   engine study, as well as the updated EPA emission factors, potential for methane emissions. 0.000% AMI is a proactive, first-of-its-kind basinwide indicate an impact to our intensity baseline and current annual Pneumatic Devices 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 initiative designed to further enhance methane reported methane emissions. Accordingly, we plan to adjust We are phasing out high-bleed pneumatic controllers at our  3,000 emissions monitoring and facilitate methane our affected targets when the new reporting and emission compressor stations. Addressing Methane Slip emissions reductions in the Appalachian Basin. factors are implemented. Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) AMI aims to establish operator and basinwide We are actively implementing and expanding the We adopted an enhanced LDAR program at our gas processing and  3,000 metrics that will drive long-term reductions. fractionation plants to reduce fugitive methane emissions intensity. following equipment performance optimizations to Methane Emissions Intensity reduce methane slip: Pipeline Launchers and Receivers (methane-scf/natural gas input-scf)   Colorado State University Methane Emissions We designed pipeline launcher and receiver stations to reduce Technology Evaluation Center (CSU METEC):   Engine Upgrade Kits: An engine supplier has ò 2030 Goal ò Progress methane and volatile organic compound emissions by as much as 85%  1,000 Operated by the Energy Institute at CSU, METEC is introduced cost-effective, low-emission upgrade kits each time they are opened as part of required operation. More 59% a leading research facility for developing, testing, that can be installed during overhauls, significantly information can be found at: https://www.mplx.com/Pipelineand demonstrating emissions leak detection and reducing methane slip while also lowering other coLauncherReceiver-Emissions-Reduction-Systems/. quantification technologies. pollutants. Reciprocating Compressors1 We are installing low-emissions packing material and measurement   Fuel Optimization: Through our Equipment,  1,000   The Environmental Partnership (TEP): TEP is ports on reciprocating compressors. Rod packing replacements will Compression Health   Optimization (ECHO) program, comprised of a number of American oil and gas occur proactively when warranted. we are enhancing efficiency and reducing emissions members that share reliability, emission and Flaring Improvements1 75% by optimizing fuel use. Our goal is to deploy ECHO operations metrics to progress efficiency and We are implementing process improvements to reduce flaring and throughout the MPLX Natural Gas and NGL Services improved environmental outcomes. achieve enhanced control efficiency. operational footprint by the end of 2026. Advancing Measurement and Quantification Technology1   Data-Driven Maintenance: We are prioritizing engine We are analyzing data from Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy maintenance and overhauls based on insights from testing and employing advanced monitoring technologies, such as aerial detection data, facilitating targeted emission satellite imagery, flyovers and drones, to identify leaks and inform reduction efforts. calculations. TOTAL  13,000 TARGET: 75% REDUCTION of MPLX methane 1 Ongoing and/or future development opportunities. Currently available estimates are based on emissions intensity by 2030 from 2016 levels EPA s upcoming revised GHG reporting rule. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 12 Renewables and Emerging Technologies We have a long history of innovation that continues today. We seek to optimize our core fuels manufacturing and KEY OBJECTIVES: logistics businesses and expand our natural gas business while making strategic, measured investments in renewable RENEWABLE FUELS PORTFOLIO   Identify and pursue renewable and low-carbon energy solutions, emerging technologies opportunities that offer attractive and early-stage developments. returns, lower costs, increase reliability We believe energy supply and technologies will continue to Renewable Diesel Renewable Natural Gas and reduce emissions. evolve, and we are excited to be engaged in providing energy solutions for a changing world. Martinez Renewables, a joint venture that we co-own with MPC expanded its portfolio in 2023 to include renewable   Deploy emerging technologies that Hydrocarbon fuels are critical to today s economy and are Neste Corporation, has a renewable diesel production natural gas (RNG) through acquisition of a 49.9% interest in reduce environmental impact while likely to continue to be for the foreseeable future. Optimizing capacity of 730 million gallons per year and includes LF Bioenergy, a renewable energy developer that builds, enhancing business performance. how they are produced and delivered is important to energy pretreatment capabilities. The facility, which had previously owns and operates facilities that turn organic waste on dairy markets, strategic to our business and foundational to our been a petroleum refinery, reached full capacity in late 2024, farms into RNG. Since then, LF Bioenergy has initiated environmental stewardship commitment. Our investments in placing it among the largest renewable diesel facilities in the commercial operations at five facilities and has two additional renewable fuels serve our customers and contribute to world. sites under construction across the U.S. reducing the carbon intensity of our products. Our renewable diesel facility in Dickinson, North Dakota, was In 2024, we were one of the largest suppliers of renewable operated as a petroleum refinery until its conversion to fuels in the U.S., delivering approximately 2.8 billion gallons Renewable Feedstock Responsible Sourcing renewables in 2020. This facility has the capacity to produce of renewable fuel to customers. Our investments have 184 million gallons per year of renewable fuels. positioned us to be able to offer our customers lower-carbon We implement a risk-based approach to responsibly source intensity products, and this volume of renewable fuel These facilities exemplify how MPC has transitioned certain feedstocks for our renewable diesel facilities. We evaluate avoided approximately 15.8 million tonnes of CO facilities to enable access to customers in lower-carbon current and prospective suppliers, countries of origin and 2 transportation emissions.1 markets while seeking to utilize existing assets and new feedstock varieties. workforce. Reviews of suppliers are conducted to evaluate their Green Bison Soy Processing, a joint venture with ADM, alignment with our Supplier Code of Conduct. This may includes a processing plant in Spiritwood, North Dakota, include an interview to obtain supplier-specific information or which has the capacity to produce approximately 600 million to address questions regarding a commodity or its origins. pounds of refined soybean oil annually, enough feedstock for  600 approximately 75 million gallons of renewable diesel per year. Before new renewable feedstocks are processed at our facilities, we evaluate a variety of information, including million information on environmental, regulatory and human rights topics. We continue to monitor the sustainability of our gallons of renewable fuels renewables sourcing practices. produced in 20242   a company record 1 MPC estimated avoided emissions using fuel carbon intensity values generated per the California Air Resources Board Low Carbon Fuel Standard life-cycle analysis models and documentation (i.e., CAGREET3.0). 2 This figure includes production by joint venture entities accounted for as equity method investments. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 13 ENERGY VENTURE DAY EXAMPLES OF EMERGING TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS During San Francisco Climate Week, MPC cosponsored and employees participated with Pegasus Tech Ventures in a Startup Blue Planet Pitch Contest, where approximately 60 energy ventures competed for the opportunity to participate in Pegasus  Startup Flyscan World Cup Finale in October of 2025. The event focused on emerging energy solutions, allowing innovative startups to MPC is collaborating with Blue Planet Systems MPC became a strategic investor and development present their transformative technologies in areas such as energy industry modernization, energy supply chain optimization, Corporation to advance the commercialization of Blue partner in Flyscan. Flyscan s technology enables early artificial intelligence and machine learning, and climate technologies. Employees participated in pitch previews, one-on-one Planet s patented Geomimetic  technology, which uses detection of threats and hydrocarbon leaks along sessions with startup ventures and as a judge for the final pitch competition. mineralization to sequester and permanently store CO in 2 pipeline rights of way using its patented aerial the built environment. Blue Planet s process captures and inspection system. stores CO in synthetic limestone aggregate used to 2 make concrete and other building products. Sapphire Technologies Bioleum MPC invested in Sapphire Technologies, a developer and manufacturer of energy recovery systems for Carbon Capture, Utilization and Sequestration MPC invested in Bioleum Corporation (formerly Comstock natural gas applications. Sapphire Technologies  Fuels), and the two companies are developing a systems are designed to convert energy that would Carbon capture, utilization and sequestration (CCUS) is a proven technology for many industrial applications. The CO generated in an commercial framework to advance Bioleum s process. 2 otherwise be wasted in pressure reduction processes industrial process is captured, compressed and transported to permanent, safe storage deep underground (typically more than a mile Bioleum s technology can convert biomass feedstock into into electric power without interrupting operations. below the surface). CCUS could be used to decarbonize  hard-to-abate  sectors, such as petroleum refining, the manufacture of drop-in hydrocarbon fuels compatible with existing chemicals, steel and cement, and heavy-duty transportation and shipping. However, to date, CCUS technology has been adopted in petroleum-based infrastructure. STAX Engineering limited applications. ElectraLith Sustainable Lithium MPC invested in STAX Engineering, which is MPC and MPLX support the continued development and use of CCUS technology as a strategy to reduce emissions of CO and the developing emissions-capturing technology on marine 2 MPC invested in ElectraLith Sustainable Lithium, whose carbon intensity of the products we supply. MPC and MPLX work with industry coalitions, trade associations and other entities to promote vessels in port. Direct Lithium Extraction and Refining processes policies and regulations that preserve the optionality for broad CCUS deployment. technology extracts and produces battery-grade lithium hydroxide in a single, scalable and modular step that requires no water or chemicals. ElectraLith has been recognized by the World Economic Forum as a top innovator in the Sustainable Mining: Mining the Unmined Challenge.  390,000 industrial applications tonnes AND of CO captured from MPC and food and beverage 2 MPLX operations and their industry respective joint ventures in 2024 for use in Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 14 CONSERVING NATURAL RESOURCES To meet society s current and future energy needs, we Our main goal is to prevent incidents. We also invest in our Biodiversity Protecting Biodiversity throughout the Asset Life must do our part as responsible stewards of the response capabilities and preparedness training to provide our Cycle environment we all share. We recognize our business teams the knowledge and resources to help mitigate and We use proactive measures to protect diverse plant and animal activities can affect ecosystems and communities, and manage impacts to people and the environment should an Our policies and practices for siting, constructing, operating, species and to preserve their natural habitats in areas where we we must manage and mitigate these impacts. Our Core incident occur. In these instances, we devote ourselves to maintaining and decommissioning assets are designed to protect operate. Our OEMS provides the procedural framework to Values guide the way we conduct our business. Safety thoroughly examining and learning from the occurrence to the environmental quality of the habitats in and adjacent to our account for the potential effects of our activities on ecosystems and Environmental Stewardship is one of our Core strengthen our processes and practices. We are using findings operational areas. These policies are aligned with the International and establishes necessary mitigation procedures. Values. We are committed to minimizing our from our investigations of 2024 DEIs to inform process Finance Corporation s Performance Standards on Environmental environmental impact through advanced technologies, improvements and other measures designed to address root Our formal Commitment to Biodiversity outlines our approach and and Social Sustainability.¹ practices and investments that conserve natural causes and reduce the number of incidents. practices. Governed by executive leadership and adopted resources. companywide, it emphasizes that we seek first to avoid, then Throughout the asset life cycle, we seek first to avoid ecologically sensitive areas. When land disturbance is unavoidable, we use a minimize or offset, impacts to biodiversity. We are mindful that variety of recognized best management practices and techniques operating within communities is a privilege, and we collaborate with Tier 3 and 4 DEIs to mitigate our impacts during the asset s life cycle. In situations tribal and local communities, business partners, and applicable state  1.9 billion  invested in 2024 to improve the (count) where complete restoration presents challenges, we offset and federal regulatory agencies, including but not limited to the U.S. environmental performance of our assets impacts to sensitive areas in several ways, including purchasing EPA, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Bureau of Land 2019 85 Management and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. through the funding of approved conservation mitigation banks or using other mechanisms to provide ongoing protection to similar 2020 50   To view our formal Commitment to Biodiversity, please visit our ecologically sensitive properties. Environmental Management website. At each stage of the asset life cycle, we: 2021 55 100% of our operations are in scope of our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS), which is Lowest   Identify and engage impacted stakeholders to solicit feedback, 2022 52 third-party reviewed for alignment with the intent of the which becomes part of our decision-making process. RC14001  standard. This standard incorporates our 2023 69 number of Tier 3 800  acres of Wildlife Habitat Council-certified   Conduct location-specific risk assessments, as appropriate, environmental stewardship policies, which include and 4 DEIs in the habitat across 14 habitats on land owned and including desk and field studies, to evaluate nature responsibilities to assess and minimize our 2024 47 past six years maintained by MPC and MPLX dependencies and impact to biodiversity, natural resources environmental impact, train our employees on and land use. environmental management best practices and Wildlife Habitat Council Certification , powered by   Determine mitigation and enhancement initiatives within the communicate with stakeholders about the Tandem Global, is the only voluntary sustainability project by working with stakeholders, local biologists and other environmental impacts of our products and operations. standard designed to recognize and promote biodiversity environmental specialists. enhancement and conservation education on corporate Learn more in the OEMS section.   Implement biodiversity management and mitigation plans and landholdings. PRIORITY AREAS TO CONSERVE assess potential outcomes to drive toward achievement of the NATURAL RESOURCES   Click here to learn more about our intended objectives. 31,000  hours of environmental training contributions in Detroit, Michigan. for MPC employees in 2024   Reducing, reusing, and recycling waste   Protecting biodiversity Accountability   Reducing freshwater withdrawal ¹ International Finance Corporation s Performance Standards on We use the Designated Environmental Incident (DEI)   Improving air quality Environmental and Social Sustainability include: Performance Standard 1   Assessment and Management of Environmental metric to track three categories of environmental   Preventing spills and Social Risks and Impacts; Performance Standard 3   incidents: unplanned releases to air, land and water; Resource Efficiency and Pollution Prevention; Performance environmental permit exceedances; and agency   Maintaining emergency preparedness Standard 4   Community Health, Safety, and Security and enforcement actions. We use a four-tiered system to Performance; Performance Standard 6   Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural measure DEI severity, with Tiers 1 and 2 being the least Resources. severe and Tiers 3 and 4 being more severe. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 15 Pipeline Nature Impact Mitigation Conservation Agriculture Conservation Agriculture is an innovative approach to Our recent work focuses on identifying and understanding locationASSESSING OUR IMPACT A TEXAS-SIZED COLLABORATION integrating pipeline safety with land stewardship, specific risks and dependencies of our pipeline operations located FOR CONSERVATION offering farmers an opportunity to enhance crops and within areas of threatened or endangered species habitat. Risks In 2024, we engaged a certified wildlife biologist to monitor support healthy ecosystems. identified include habitat impacts, species movement and nature a more than 420-mile stretch of pipeline in Pinedale, dependency-related risks, including regulation of water quality and Through this program, we collaborate with farmers to Wyoming, to assess conditions related to weeds, erosion soil stabilization. To mitigate these risks, we apply best management transform areas of shallow cover into sustainable and vegetation. They used a qualitative scoring system to In 2024, MPC was recognized by Texan by Nature practices and techniques throughout the pipeline life cycle. habitats. By opting for conservation approaches where identify areas needing improvement and to evaluate what (TxN) as one of only two businesses from the energy factors like erosion create greater risk of pipeline successful restoration would look like. The project yielded sector on its TxN 20 list. This list represents the top exposure, farmers play a crucial role in maintaining the following actions and observations: 20 companies operating in Texas based on their pipeline safety and cultivating native habitat that can leadership in advancing conservation and BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND TECHNIQUES Avoid support cross-pollination. APPLIED TO MITIGATE IMPACTS TO NATURE sustainability. Focus on monitoring and preserving areas with intact MPC investments and conservation efforts in the state native vegetation and avoid any unnecessary disturbance. Conservation Mowing of Texas that earned TxN s recognition involved Adjusting mowing schedules and mower height throughout Reduce MPC s El Paso and Galveston Bay refineries as well as the year helps protect ground-nesting birds and avoid Natural Gas and NGL Services assets of MPLX. disturbing wildlife during important migration periods. Manually dig up and remove musk thistle in the area to reduce the need for chemical treatments. Conservation Projects Examples Selective Herbicide Regenerate A pilot program was developed with TxN to assess Applying U.S. EPA-approved products to target invasive or environmental strategies, such as recycling water and Regenerate areas dominated by halogeton, a noxious and incompatible plant species mitigates impacts to native restoring native vegetation, that could be integrated invasive weed, by reseeding with native species such as vegetation. Weed management plans keep treated areas into construction of natural gas gathering pipelines in free of invasive and non-native weeds. Rocky Mountain bee plant and annual sunflower to the Permian and Haynesville Basins. outcompete the halogeton weed through rapid biomass production and shading. An additional air quality monitoring station was Enhanced Planting purchased for Juarez, Mexico, El Paso s sister city Planting seeds that attract pollinators or provide food to Restore across the border, to strengthen data collection in boost biodiversity helps crowd out incompatible or invasive plants. Implement erosion control processes, including reshaping the Paso del Norte Air Basin. The El Paso refinery also terrain, applying seed mixes and enforcing stabilization replaced hydrostatic tank testing with an alternate practices based on severity and soil type to restore area to method, saving millions of gallons of water. Hand Clearing a more natural state. Clearing woody plants by hand and using targeted MPC awarded grants to the Galveston Bay treatments help minimize disruption in the area. Areas deemed to be higher risk received treatments based Foundation in support of habitat restoration, water on assessment recommendations and are currently being protection and land conservation. monitored to determine Assessments and Education progress toward recovery. We promoted environmental awareness through   Conducting post-construction surveys and research to community projects, including tree plantings, verify sensitive areas have been appropriately restored. Areas with little to no risk will managed by the Galveston Bay refinery s Wildlife   Monitoring wetland and waterway crossing sites on continue to be monitored Habitat Team of employee volunteers. pipeline rights of way to confirm they are fully restored demonstrating our and functioning. commitment to   Training employees and contractors about biodiversity environmental and maintaining assets in sensitive areas. stewardship.   Using signage to identify sensitive areas. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 16 Sustainable Landscapes MPL, a wholly owned subsidiary of MPLX, is working toward its target to TANGIBLE PATHWAY TO EXPERT COLLABORATION apply sustainable landscapes to approximately 10,000 acres (50%) of SUSTAINABLE LANDSCAPES As efforts progress toward achieving our sustainable landscapes target, MPL engages the following partner organizations: compatible rights of way by the end of 2025. Through 2024, 8,825 acres of sustainable landscapes have been applied to pipeline rights of way.   The Ohio State University School of Environment and Natural Resources (SENR) to conduct research on pipeline rights of way with a focus on ecology, soil carbon and landowner relations. As work continues to achieve this goal, MPL is harnessing the power of   Pheasants Forever/Quail Forever to support site evaluations, plan development and execution, and monitor outcomes. nature-based solutions   Integrated Vegetation Management (IVM)1 and Creating sustainable landscapes to pipeline rights of Integrated Habitat Management (IHM)2 plans   through partnerships and way is a multiyear, multistep process.   Mule Deer Foundation to evaluate habitat impacts in western states near our assets. technology. Together, these practices help MPL to operate its pipelines   Nutrien Solutions to provide technical expertise for the application of select herbicide. safely while enhancing habitat for pollinators and wildlife, reducing Evaluating existing vegetation and setting site  Corteva Agriscience to create innovative agricultural solutions and utilize resources to educate landowners. impact to operations and promoting long-term environmental health. specific goals Landowners and partners are engaged in the evaluation process to set goals specific to location, Biodiversity   Sustainable Landscapes land use, habitats, species and other criteria. (acres) Developing implementation plans Nationwide Conservation Agreement ò 2025 Goal ò Progress Plans consider site-specific goals to promote native for the Monarch Butterfly species, increase pollinator plants, promote water 8,825 acres quality and soil stabilization, and connect fragmented MPLX proudly signed the Nationwide Candidate habitats. Plans prioritize pollinator and grassland Conservation Agreement with Assurances habitats that provide critical habitats for threatened (CCAA) for Monarch Butterflies on Energy and and endangered species. Transportation Lands, a unique collaboration between academia, regulators and industry. This Executing the plan agreement underscores our commitment to Plans are executed in conjunction with contractors enhancing biodiversity and supporting monarch  10,000 and partners and documented using robust mapping butterfly populations. We achieve this by technology to track progress and achieve desired enhancing our rights of way to promote the outcomes. acres growth of milkweed and nectar resources. Monitoring the plan Plans are monitored to confirm execution is achieving planned objectives. Evaluating success Success is evaluated by verifying all criteria have been met within our executed plan. TARGET: Apply sustainable landscapes to  10,000 ACRES ( 50%) of compatible MPL rights of way by the end of 2025 5,500  1 Integrated Vegetation Management (IVM): A flexible, adaptive process of managing plant communities using a variety of methods to promote and protect compatible vegetation assessments vegetation while aligning with the intended purpose of the land. completed by MPL since 2022 2 Integrated Habitat Management (IHM): A process that adheres to IVM principles with the added intention to improve habitat by promoting biodiversity, connecting wildlife corridors to address habitat fragmentation, and providing habitat for migratory insects, birds and various wildlife species. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 17 Water Managing Wastewater We actively monitor water utilization throughout all operations, continually looking for ways to reduce our reliance on this shared Freshwater Withdrawal Intensity WATER USE IN OPERATIONS We operate 11 biological treatment plants and four primary resource and manage it more efficiently. To further our (megaliters/million boe input) treatment facilities across our refineries and renewable fuels commitment to water conservation, in 2020 we set a Water is essential to our operations. Depending on the facilities. Water not reused or consumed is collected at these companywide target to reduce freshwater withdrawal intensity location, we may source water from rivers, lakes, wells on-site facilities to be treated and recycled back into 20% by 2030 from 2016 levels. Through 2024, we have Actual Goal Trajectory and municipal water plants and also purchase some manufacturing activities, treated and discharged, or treated achieved an 18% reduction in our freshwater withdrawal intensity recycled water for use in our operations. Most of our and sent to a publicly owned treatment works. Water is 100 from 2016 levels, which equates to almost 2 billion gallons of companywide water demand comes from refining treated to meet or exceed required permit effluent limits, fresh water saved per year. operations. In contrast, MPLX gas processing plants are which ultimately allows it to be discharged to a surface body designed to use little or no water in their routine of water such as a lake, river or bay, so that the quality of these bodies of water is maintained. To manage water operations. Nearly all gas processing plants have air90 discharges within permit effluent limits, extensive monitoring, cooling units that circulate hot product through air-cooled Freshwater Withdrawal Intensity sampling, operator rounds and equipment monitoring is radiators, minimizing the need for water. (megaliters/million boe input) 2 0 performed. % re ò 2030 Goal ò Progress 80 d u ctio Uses in Refining Enhancements at our Detroit, Michigan, refinery s wastewater n   Add heat to refining process (as steam) treatment plant have allowed nearly one-third of its 18% wastewater treatment plant effluent to be used as boiler feed   Clean equipment during maintenance activities water by utilizing a reverse osmosis system. Plans are 70   Control emissions underway to implement a second system with the potential to 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030 achieve a twofold increase in freshwater savings by   Generate hydrogen increasing total reverse osmosis capacity and directing the   Protect equipment from corrosion extra recovered water to cooling tower makeup to supplement water that evaporates or is otherwise lost during   Purify products (as stripping steam) a cooling cycle. 20%   Remove heat from the process (as cooling water)   Remove salts and impurities from crude oil Uses in MPLX   Clean equipment during maintenance activities   Create emulsions (asphalt blending)   Install pipelines (horizontal directional drilling)   Heat asphalt tanks (as steam)   Remove impurities from natural gas TARGET: 20% REDUCTION of freshwater withdrawal intensity by 2030 from 2016 levels   Test pipeline and tank integrity (hydrostatic testing) Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 18 diverting more reverse osmosis reject water for reuse Local Water Conservation Water Conservation Results WATER FRAMEWORK Water availability is a concern throughout much of the world, Through a variety of innovations, we have reduced our freshwater 2024 PROJECTS TO REDUCE including parts of the U.S. Currently, three of MPC s operating withdrawal intensity by 18% since 2016. In 2024, we continued our FRESHWATER WITHDRAWAL2 refineries   El Paso, Texas; Salt Lake City, Utah; and Los Angeles, companywide Focus on Water program to further assess water Water Limits California   plus one renewable fuels facility   Martinez, California use, understand and mitigate water risks, and identify opportunities 1 Actual water usage and discharges are   are located in water-stressed regions as defined by the Global to reduce water use. As a result, projects from this program at our tracked against known limits. Anacortes, Washington, refinery Reporting Initiative (GRI) and World Resources Institute assessment MPC refineries and renewable facilities have potential fresh water tools. To help conserve water in these regions and across MPC savings estimated at more than 500 million gallons annually.  15 million gallons saved annually by rerouting a Accounting refineries, our refining teams create site-specific plans that use 2 Across the company, we continued to further align water large stream of wastewater from a waste-heat Water monitoring programs integrate aspects of a nine-element guidance framework. management practices to make significant progress toward our boiler/flash drum system to another process unit. contractual water volume and cost. 2030 target. The guidance framework is designed to assess water use, Catlettsburg, Kentucky, refinery understand and mitigate water risks, and identify opportunities to 2024 MPLX Water Savings Value Chain and Community Engagement  100 million gallons saved annually by identifying reduce water use. Every refinery has designated engineers who 3 Mutually beneficial opportunities are sought Hydrostatic tests are used throughout our operations to test and repairing eight steam leaks in the main steam serve as water coordinators, have established baselines for to reduce water demands and costs and storage tank and pipeline integrity. Though effective at identifying header drip leg lines across the refinery. assessing water use, and maintain robust transparency with site reliance on single-water sources. defects, these tests require high volumes of water. We have had leadership on how water is used through standardized water success reusing fresh water after completed hydrostatic tests, and Detroit, Michigan, refinery monitoring and reporting. Impacts we are avoiding water use by leveraging alternative technologies 4  140 million gallons saved annually by utilizing a To help mitigate local water risks, we engage community Water-related business and compliance and processes in place of hydrostatic tests. reverse osmosis system to redirect about one-third members, government agencies and key water supply issues are tracked, investigated and of its wastewater treatment plant effluent for reuse organizations. This engagement includes tracking and monitoring mitigated. Natural Gas and NGL Services saved 2.7 million as boiler feed water. the local water supply and planning for future changes in water gallons of fresh water by using and returning quality, availability, pricing and regulation. We support water Risks 5 uncontaminated hydrostatic test water to local water El Paso, Texas, refinery supply organizations through membership, board leadership and Water-related risks are identified and depots or returning it to the environment. committee participation. assessed based on impact to the company  20 million gallons saved annually by optimizing and community. steam management to recover additional Water Supply Organizations We Support: condensate streams. Targets and Goals 6   American Petroleum Institute s Clean Water Issues Group Water targets and goals are set. Crude Oil and Products Logistics saved over 29 Galveston Bay, Texas, refinery million gallons of fresh water by replacing   Brazos River Authority (Texas)  133 million gallons saved annually by optimizing hydrostatic tests on storage tanks with the use of Opportunities   California Council for Environmental and Economic Balance 7 makeup water usage in the wet gas scrubber unit. phased-array ultrasonic testing, X-ray inspections, Opportunities are identified and applied to   Far West Texas Water Planning Group meet water targets and goals and improve magnetic particle examination and volumetric weld Martinez Renewable Fuels testing. performance relative to benchmarking.   Gulf Coast Water Authority (Texas)  70 million gallons saved annually by reducing water used in the pretreatment facility to remove   New Mexico Produced Water Research Consortium Monitoring and Performance 8 contaminants from feedstocks. Water withdrawals are measured to   Utah Petroleum Association Water Work Group benchmark water demands and understand   West Basin Water Association (California) Los Angeles, California, refinery consumption. The Los Angeles refinery was awarded  20 million gallons saved annually by replacing a a 2024 Solenis Sustainability Award for steam turbine with a more energy efficient electric Commitment and Engagement 9 cooling-water modifications projected to save motor. Expectations of water targets and goals are 357 million gallons of fresh water per year. clearly communicated, and resources for 74% successful implementation are assigned.   Read more about the award here. of fresh water withdrawn from nonwater-stressed areas1 1 World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 2 Freshwater volumes are projected annualized savings. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 19 Spill Prevention Zero is always our goal. Our commitment to safely and responsibly operating our assets is critical to our business and to protecting PIPELINE INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT communities and the environment. We support this commitment through operational practices and advanced technology, focused on a goal of zero spills. Design and Construction Corrosion Control Pipeline Safety Management Pipeline Integrity Management We use inspection and quality-control procedures to Coating is applied to the outer surface of our pipelines, and we We educate landowners, first responders and community safely build and operate our pipeline assets. Our install cathodic protection systems along our pipeline routes to partners located near our pipelines about safe digging Our extensive Integrity Management program seeks to pipeline construction process involves a series of help prevent external corrosion. Full cathodic protection practices and emergency response. identify and respond to integrity threats to our pipeline rigorously controlled steps, including but not limited to inspections are conducted annually to verify that our systems systems. This program s aim is to protect all areas from route and material selection, welding, testing and site Geohazard Management are functioning properly. Maintenance tools, along with spills. We prioritize areas where a spill from a pipeline could restoration. Our robust geohazard management program is designed to anticorrosive chemical injections, help to protect our pipelines affect a densely populated area, drinking water, ecologically monitor, assess, inspect and remediate potential hazards against internal corrosion. Preventive Maintenance sensitive zones or a commercially navigable waterway. associated with earth movement from both landslides and We complete recurring inspection, testing and Through annual risk modeling, we systematically identify Inspections1 subsidence in unstable terrain and varied geological preventive maintenance on our pipelines and potential hazards to each pipeline and assess their relative We use multiple inspection methods to assess the integrity and conditions. The program encompasses employee training on associated equipment to confirm they are of sound significance, allowing us to develop effective mitigation safety of our pipelines, including but not limited to in-line, aboveidentifying geohazard risks, periodic assessments to detect integrity and functioning properly. When necessary, we measures. These risks may include damage by third parties, ground and waterway crossing inspections. land movement and pipeline impact, and targeted make repairs and implement additional risk mitigation corrosion, cracks, dents, operator error, manufacturing remediation efforts grounded in industry best practices. strategies to maintain safe operations.   In-line inspection tools travel through pipelines, scanning and defects, equipment failure, geohazards or weather events. measuring a pipe s walls for signs of dents, corrosion or In 2024, we shared advancements in new in-line inspection cracking. These inspections are conducted at least once technology at several industry conferences, highlighting our every five years for liquid transmission pipelines and at least ongoing efforts to validate the new tool s capabilities. once every seven years for gas transmission pipelines. Additionally, we piloted innovative magnetic, drone-based  15.3 million  invested to modernize pipeline technology for pipeline locating at waterway crossings and   Above-ground inspections involve visually inspecting pipeline assets, including adding permanent means of  132 for assessing strain based on pipe deflection. routes with air and/or ground patrols to detect third-party launching and receiving in-line inspection activity near the pipeline, land disturbances and pipeline Our efforts also improve the environment, as we apply tools on select pipelines in 2024 million spills. We conduct these at least once every three weeks for sustainable landscapes along pipeline rights of way to reduce liquid pipelines and at least once each calendar year for gas soil erosion and enhance subsurface stability. transmission pipelines. invested in pipeline   Learn more about our work applying sustainable landscapes to preventive maintenance   Navigable waterway crossing inspections use high-resolution pipeline rights of way in our Sustainable Landscapes section. in 2024 sonar equipment to inspect underwater pipelines to Monitoring and Detection determine whether erosion and water channel changes could Pipeline pressure, flow and volume are monitored 24/7 by impact the integrity of the pipe. These are conducted at least highly trained personnel. Sensors and meters on our once every five years for both liquid and gas transmission pipelines detect drops in pressure or changes in flow rate pipelines. and alert personnel. 1 MPC and MPLX conform to inspection frequency requirements contained in 49 CFR 195 and 192. Listed inspection frequencies apply to regulated pipelines only. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 20 Innovating with New Technologies By evolving our spill prevention and preparedness strategies, MARINE INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT we are better equipped to rigorously assess the integrity of our assets, prevent incidents and address releases if they occur. Across MPC and MPLX, we continue to make investments and adopt new technologies that enhance our robust pipeline in-line Our marine operations consist of Global Marine and Inland Marine environments, each presenting a unique set of inspection and assessment technology programs. challenges. To meet these challenges, we deploy a comprehensive vetting and inspection program to minimize In 2024, we expanded the use of Flyscan, artificial intelligence impacts to the public, wildlife and the environment. (AI)-driven right-of-way threat and leak detection technology. Inspections From a patrol plane, the technology scans the right of way and As a member of the Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF) and with a seat on its executive board, we surrounding area for hydrocarbon leaks and mechanical actively promote the safe and environmentally responsible marine transportation of oil and gas. We lead and engage equipment threats, performing with greater sensitivity and in OCIMF committees to develop industry best practices that influence International Maritime Organization (IMO) accuracy than human observers. Our collaboration with Flyscan regulations and global Port State Control organizations like the U.S. Coast Guard. Our commitment to safety is Systems Inc. continues to enhance the capabilities of the demonstrated through rigorous vetting and inspection programs. Vessels1 are vetted against 43 different sources for technology, transforming right-of-way inspection for the entire regulatory and sanction compliance, including the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) sanction lists and industry. regulatory watch lists such as the Paris Memorandum of Understanding black list. Additionally, vessels are inspected Cameras equipped with AI technology are now used at 172 of using OCIMF s Ship Inspection Report (SIRE) and Barge Inspection Report (BIRE) programs, as well as Port State our remote pipeline facilities. We ve also begun leveraging the Control. Vessels with poor inspection history, poor flag state history or those under sanction are ineligible to conduct advanced functionality of these AI cameras, with expanded leak business with MPC. and threat detection capabilities at 78 of these locations. These cameras have the ability to identify potential hydrocarbon spills Inspection Report Programs and other threats, like fire and smoke, and notify our personnel. Every vessel we own, operate or charter that calls upon our terminals, or third-party terminals where We collaborated with an in-line inspection (ILI) tool vendor to we hold tankage, are vetted using either OCIMF s SIRE or BIRE as a starting baseline. develop a 22-inch diameter ILI, previously unavailable in the   Accredited third parties conduct inspections of each vessel using questionnaires and onboard industry. In 2024, the ILI tool successfully inspected two inspections that address issues associated with safety and pollution prevention measures. pipelines, totaling 225 miles. It is now commercially available, helping other pipeline operators enhance the safety and   Inspection results contribute to risk assessments that determine suitability for use. Results also are integrity management of their assets. uploaded to a database that is accessible by companies that charter vessels or operate terminals and governmental organizations that supervise safety and pollution prevention from oil vessels. Port State Control Every vessel we own, operate or charter that calls upon our terminals, or third-party terminals where we hold tankage, are inspected to verify that their condition, equipment, staffing and operations comply with regulatory requirements. 1 Includes tankers, bulk carriers, gas tankers, tugs, barges and articulated tug and barges. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 21 Emergency Preparedness Meticulous planning and strategic preparedness are critical to CERT Resources and Support Preparedness in Action effectively respond in the event of an emergency. Through continuous improvement and investment in our response EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS   Emergency Strike Team: A stand-alone response management In fall 2024, our Florida terminals were threatened by two team capable of supplementing, relieving or taking command in a major hurricanes   Milton (Category 3), and Helene (Category capabilities, we can effectively minimize and mitigate impacts EXERCISES major emergency. 4). MPC s emergency response team deployed 170 employees on people and the environment in the event of an incident. to the surrounding areas and engaged over 140 employees   Emergency Support Group: Provides key support functions, such Each of our operating locations have emergency response remotely to execute hurricane plans and prepare the terminals as IT, communications and geographic information system teams and site-specific emergency preparedness and for the storms  paths. response plans in place, tailored to the unique risks of each Our CERT members and other emergency mapping during an incident. location. Regular drills and exercises are conducted to ensure response personnel actively engage in a variety Through collaboration and quick action from the local Tier 2   Crisis Management Team: A group of executive-level advisors that our teams can respond with precision and confidence, of training exercises to maintain our readiness at team and CERT, both responses were completed with zero prepared to respond to MPC s and MPLX s needs during should an incident occur. all times. They collaborate with federal, state, injuries, no environmental or product quality impact and significant incidents. local and tribal responders, such as the U.S. terminal operations resumed quickly. Our response plans are regularly reviewed and approved by   Business Recovery Team: Works to meet MPC s, MPLX s and EPA, the U.S. Coast Guard, state environmental several agencies, including the U.S. EPA, the U.S. Coast customer needs during supply disruptions. Strength through Collaboration protection or wildlife agencies, tribal Guard, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety government representatives and local   Threat Assessment Group: Tasked with determining the potential Administration (PHMSA) and appropriate state agencies. In addition to working to strengthen our response capabilities, emergency responders, such as law impact of a threat to MPC or MPLX, informing impacted we are sharpening our business continuity and business MPC s Emergency Preparedness Group (EPG) oversees our enforcement and firefighters. MPC and MPLX stakeholders and recommending steps to protect people and resiliency plans across our operations to best prepare response program, which includes companywide guidelines maintain a response simulation program assets. ourselves to continue to deliver on supply commitments and procedures on how to prepare for and respond to designed to test and continuously enhance our   International Team: Determines the potential impact, during and following an emergency response. Business emergencies. The group s continued focus is to strengthen response capabilities: recommends response strategies and responds to incidents continuity coordinators are in place across the business to our capability to respond swiftly and effectively to any related to the shipment of crude oil and refined products outside maintain alignment and help keep our energy products emergency incident at any of our facilities. The EPG staff   Our exercises follow the guidelines of the the United States. supplied to markets during challenging times. coordinates with business components to share best federal government s National Preparedness practices and resources across the company. for Response Exercise Program (PREP), which meets the requirements of the Oil Pollution For incidents that are larger in scope and complexity, Act of 1990 and all federal, state and local requiring resources beyond those available at a local facility, requirements. the EPG maintains a Corporate Emergency Response Team (CERT). This team of more than 250 employees has response   Exercises help prepare for emergency expertise and advanced training in the Incident Command situations and are used to review, critique System, a globally recognized organizational structure and improve our emergency response plans. designed to integrate resources across multiple agencies and organizations.   We take a collaborative approach to emergency preparedness. In addition to training our own employees and contractors, TIERED RESPONSE SYSTEM: we engage federal, state, local and tribal Incident responses are directed by a local agencies, local fire departments and other TIER 1 response team first responders, and community leaders who Incident responses are directed by a district/ have an interest in the design and TIER 2 regional response team development of our plans and exercises. Incident responses are larger in scope and TIER 3 complexity and directed by the CERT Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 22 Reducing, Reusing and Recycling Waste Managing waste is a key part of conserving natural resources. We Waste Audits Methods and Technologies to Minimize Waste have systems and processes in place designed to reduce waste Waste audits are conducted throughout our operations using a generation and to recycle or reuse materials whenever possible. Reducing the amount of waste we generate carries significant combination of record examinations and facility walk-throughs. environmental benefits. As such, we continue to invest in and ALTERNATIVE METHODS Audits identify the amount and type of waste being generated Waste Management deploy methods and technologies aimed at reducing, reusing OF DISPOSAL and opportunities to minimize waste. and recycling waste generated throughout our operations. The volume of waste we generate in any given year varies Waste Management Vendor Approval Program significantly depending on scheduled maintenance and remediation activities. Waste management and minimization plans In addition to our contractor selection requirements and We deploy alternative methods to recapture waste are in place across MPC and MPLX operating locations and help supplier selection process, we maintain a thorough Waste  23 million  invested in methods and as a resource to manufacture new materials. Three manage volumetric cycles. Plans are specific to each operating Management Vendor Approval program. This program technologies to reduce, reuse and recycle examples of this are using waste to fuel cement component and location and include elements to legally and assesses the health, environment, safety and security (HES S) waste throughout the refining process in 2024 production, reusing spent caustic to manufacture responsibly manage waste. performance of waste disposal and recycling vendors before paper and recycling spent catalyst for use in steel we will conduct business with them. All potential vendors must production. disclose facility information, including types of waste managed, HES S practices and compliance with state and federal waste Cement Kiln Disposal Waste management and minimization plan regulations. Based on this information, MPC may conduct Waste is managed onand off-site to recover hydrocarbons for Since 2013, more than 126,000 tonnes of refinery elements include: vetting activities that include background checks, legal reuse in the refining process and minimize the total amount of waste have served as an alternative fuel source for reviews, CHWMEG ¹ reviews and site audits. Facilities that are waste requiring other treatment or disposal. These waste the cement industry, reducing CO e emissions   Assessments   Manifesting 2 approved and actively utilized are re-vetted on a recurring management operations include a combination of: compared to coal use for cement manufacturing   Characterization   Measuring basis. operations.   Centrifuging to separate water, oil and solids to reduce the   Emergency   Proper disposal volume of material prior to disposal. Spent Caustic Reuse preparedness   Record-keeping   Thermal separation to recapture oil vapors so that they can In 2024, about 19,000 tonnes of spent caustic from be condensed back to the liquid phase.   Employee training   Storage our refineries was reused by the paper goods ELECTRONICS RECYCLING   Thermal desorption to recover and return hydrocarbons to industry, reducing the need for newly manufactured   Handling   Tracking the refining process as feedstocks, remove hazardous chemical inputs, and the associated emissions, to   Labeling   Transporting characteristics of waste and reduce the total volume of waste. the paper manufacturing process. Reducing our electronic waste (e-waste) saves   Coker injection to recover and recycle oil waste as feedstock Spent Catalyst Reuse and Recycling energy, and proper disposal keeps toxins from and solid waste to become petroleum coke. We aim to recycle all spent catalyst discarded from entering landfills. In 2024, MPC and MPLX MPC refining hydroprocessing units. If we cannot recycled over 220,000 pounds of e-waste reuse spent catalyst within our operations, it is sent including mobile devices, computers, monitors to a third party for use by others in the oil and gas and other miscellaneous electronic devices. industry. When reuse is not possible, spent catalyst 250,000  barrels of oil reintroduced into the is delivered to a business partner that extracts the refining process to be turned into fuels or vanadium, molybdenum and other valuable metals other products in 2024 to produce ferrovanadium and metal alloys, which are then used in steel production. In 2024, over 13,000 tonnes, or nearly all, spent catalyst from MPC refining hydroprocessing units were reused or reclaimed. 1 A nonprofit organization that conducts comprehensive, independent HES S reviews of commercial vendor sites/facilities that treat, store, dispose of, recycle or transport waste. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 23 Air Quality and Emissions Air quality is important to MPC and MPLX, our stakeholders and Reducing Gas Flaring the communities where we operate. We are committed to Our refineries have flare-reduction programs that help minimize maintaining open and ongoing dialogue with stakeholders near THE ROAD TO REDUCING NITROGEN OXIDE EMISSIONS flaring and enable efficient combustion. In addition, many our operations on important topics, including air quality. We are refineries have flare gas recovery systems that return gas to the dedicated to continuously enhancing our programs and refining process instead of flaring, reducing criteria pollutant and strategies that address air quality and implementing them GHG emissions. throughout our operations. From 2017 through 2024, this approach helped us reduce Minimizing Fugitive Emissions Investing in the Los Angeles Refinery criteria pollutant emissions by 29%. Across MPC and MPLX operations, we utilize acoustic imaging Our Los Angeles, California, refinery made further progress in 2024 toward completing a multiyear transformation of cameras, also known as FLUKE  Imagers, to quickly and the facility that is expected to lower site-wide emissions of nitrogen oxides by 20%, striving for a total reduction of accurately detect air, gas and vacuum leaks in compressed air  49% from 2017 levels. Work moved forward on replacing six existing boilers with two new, high-pressure boilers that Companywide Criteria Pollutant Emissions systems and confirm that leak repairs are effective. These have selective catalytic reduction technology. The technology uses a catalyst to create a chemical reaction that (thousand tonnes) devices use highly sensitive microphones to identify the reduces the amount of nitrogen oxide in the boiler exhaust. distinctive sounds of leaks, even in noisy environments. Additionally, we advanced an effort to install overhead electric transmission lines that will connect the refinery s Additionally, advanced monitoring technologies, such as Carson and Wilmington operations and enable the retirement of two 40-year-old cogeneration (combined heat and satellite imagery, flyovers and drones, also are employed to 2017 59 power generation) units, creating more reliable and efficient operations. identify leaks. The refinery s overall transformation is scheduled to be finished by the end of 2025. Along with lowering air 2018 54 Lowering VOCs emissions, the improvements are expected to reduce energy consumption and lower water use by approximately 375 million gallons a year. Through MPLX s Focus on Methane program, we have 2019 50 implemented measures that have achieved significant methane emissions reductions. An additional benefit of this program is 2020 44 the reduction of volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. Since 2016, we estimate that our Focus on Methane program has reduced MPLX methane emissions by 13,000 tonnes per 2021 44 year, while also reducing VOC emissions by an estimated 600 tonnes per year. 2022 43   Learn more about MPLX s Focus on Methane program in our Methane Emissions section. 2023 42 Transparent Community Air Monitoring 29% We ve implemented detailed, near real-time, public-facing air 2024 41 reduction monitoring systems for our Detroit, Michigan, and Los Angeles, California, refineries, and Martinez, California, Renewable Fuels facility. These systems, accessible via the facilities  websites, Sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions Nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions offer easy-to-read, color-coded classifications that provide Carbon monoxide (CO) emissions comprehensive information on air quality, emission levels, wind Volatile organic compounds (VOC) emissions direction, wind speed and temperature at a glance. Community Particulate matter (PM ) emissions 10 members also can opt in to a system to receive air-quality alerts. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 24 Empower OUR PEOPLE We prioritize safety and are dedicated to cultivating a safe, collaborative and inclusive work environment that supports the growth and success of our people. A Culture of Safety 25 Engaged and Energized Workforce 27 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 25 A CULTURE OF SAFETY Our number one priority is the safety of our employees, Leadership Skills for Extraordinary Safety: This workshop Compliance and Beyond Process Safety Management contractors, business partners, customers and communities. enhances interpersonal and safety leadership skills. To continually reinforce a strong culture of safety and high Participants learn to understand themselves and others Our personal safety standards comply with, and in many cases We strive to continually improve the safety of our operations by evaluating performance expectations, we use a combination of better, improving adaptability. It concludes with actionable exceed, local, state and federal regulations. Strict adherence to safeguards (e.g., alarms, interlocks, safety controls) and implementing robust management systems, best practice-based operational plans to lead teams to work more safely and effectively. processes and procedures, along with comprehensive training equipment inspection and testing programs, while prioritizing safety risk standards, and documented work processes and programs. programs, are integral to our safety culture. Regular audits and mitigation. By adhering to our OEMS, the principles of Process Safety Start Safe, Stay Safe: This refining program emphasizes our quality assurance visits, conducted by internal and external Management (PSM) and applicable regulatory requirements, we are Our Operational Excellence Management System (OEMS) is unwavering commitment to the safety of our employees, subject matter experts, continuously evaluate the efficacy of our dedicated to minimizing the frequency and severity of process safety events. fundamental to managing risks and preventing incidents, contractors and communities. It includes nearand long-term standards. illnesses and fatalities. It is aligned with the intent of RC14001  safety goals that reinforce adherence to safety processes Our PSM program provides a framework and systematic approach to identify and ISO9001, including health and safety components and and procedures already in place and strives for a best-inand address environmental, health and safety risks. Designed to prevent or Choosing Safe and Innovative the Plan-Do-Check-Act continual improvement cycle. class safety culture built on trust and collaboration. mitigate the consequences of incidents, it supports responsible operation of our facilities. To learn more about our OEMS, see Page 42. My Name Is On It: This refining mentorship program Contractors emphasizes an approach that gives leaders a sense of Our designated PSM facilities that handle highly hazardous chemicals and are ownership and responsibility, and encourages engagement regulated under OSHA s Process Safety Management standards, undergo Demonstrating a culture of safety is a top priority in our with teams to foster a sense of pride in their work. both self-audits and collaborative audits conducted by local employees and evaluation and selection of contractors. Prospective contractors  490,500  hours of health and safety internal subject matter experts. Identified issues are documented in the audit health and safety programs and safety data, including total Safety Leadership with Our Business Partners: A refining training for MPC employees in 2024 and recommendation tracking tool, with the findings tracked to resolution. recordable incident rates and federal OSHA logs, must be training program designed to collectively engage employees, vetted by an independent third party before we enter a Compliance audits are conducted every three years to comprehensively contractors and business partners. Participants learn about contract. assess PSM facilities across 14 process safety elements. leadership, safety skills and safety programs critical to MPC Safety   A Shared Responsibility operations. Contractor Selection Requirements:   100% of PSM facilities conducted either collaborative or self-audits in 2024.   38% of PSM facilities conducted a compliance audit in 2024.   Demonstrate an exemplary safety record Stop-Work Authority Safety is a responsibility shared by all employees and   Show a strong health and safety culture and concern for the contractors across the company. Everyone is expected to If any employee or contractor believes a task is being community create and maintain a safe and healthy workplace and is held performed unsafely, they have the authority and obligation to COLLABORATION WITH OSHA to the same high standards and expectations. stop the work in progress until the safety concern is   Practice sound environmental stewardship addressed   no matter how big or small the job may be. Our leaders in the field champion safety by holding regular   Utilize innovative technology and tools to improve safety and safety meetings with employees and contractors, fostering performance Working closely with regulators, such as OSHA, enables us all to Incident Reporting and Tracking two-way communication and encouraging continuous foster a safer workplace. OSHA s Voluntary Protection Program   Meet all federal and state regulations learning. Additionally, safety committees in the Findlay, Ohio, (VPP) is a cooperative program between regulators and industry Employees and contractors are responsible for promptly and San Antonio, Texas, offices comprised of employees at   Possess qualifications and training for their specific roles that recognizes and helps drive exemplary safety performance at reporting an incident or injury, and we prohibit reprisal for all levels actively promote safety programs and initiatives, all levels of an organization. There are three levels of designation: reporting. A companywide software system is used to actively Once a job is awarded, all contractors and subcontractors enhancing overall safety awareness. Demonstration, Merit and Star, which is the highest level. report, track and identify trends in incidents and injuries. tasked with safety-sensitive work must fulfill a set of To further strengthen a culture rooted in safety, programs that Overseen by management, the system enables tracking and prerequisites before beginning work. These requirements 40 VPP Star certifications earned covering 53 MPC and MPLX focus on our employees, contractors and business partners documentation of incident investigations and corrective include reviewing our operating guidelines regarding contractor facilities are implemented across MPC and MPLX. actions through resolution. The system also measures our safety management, submitting a pre-job safety questionnaire operating discipline and management system performance and completing daily safe-work permits. 11 nested contracted companies are VPP-certified at our sites, Safety-Focused Programs through indicators like management of change tasks, audits under MPC sponsorship Each of MPC s and MPLX s operating organizations annually and recommendations. invite contractors to a Contractor Safety Summit, focusing on Safety 1: Safety 1 is a culture-based safety training that aims to In 2024, our Garyville refinery celebrated 30 years of maintaining best-practice sharing, collaboration, and our safety culture and provide employees with the skills to make good safety its OSHA VPP Star status, making it the longest-running VPP Star expectations. The annual event topics include contractor decisions and the courage to intervene if they see another refinery in the U.S. The recognition acknowledges exceptional onboarding, lessons learned from incidents and the contractor employee doing something that creates risk. safety practices and highlights the refinery s commitment to a safe deep-dive audit process. work environment. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 26 Enhanced Safety Programs Our goal is to maintain a workplace free from accidents, ensuring Serious Injury and Fatality Program everyone who comes to our sites goes home safely. We provide We strive to prevent serious life-altering incidents before they occur the tools, training and resources needed for a safe work 2024 SAFETY AWARDS by identifying leading indicators that reveal potential risks in our environment. By continuously enhancing our safety programs systems and work processes. We utilize tools such as our Field Audit through peer observation and feedback, we identify key Safety Tool, American Fuel   Petrochemical Manufacturers (AFPM) indicators of potential life-altering incidents and focus on Incident Classification Matrix and Serious Injury and Fatality Task American Fuel   International Liquid foundational beliefs in human and organizational performance. Force. Petrochemical Manufacturers Terminals Association Behavior-Based Safety Programs   Field Audit Safety Tool: This web-based software enables faster safety trend analysis and timely notifications to refinery personnel, We integrate Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) programs throughout facilitating prompt action to prevent potential safety issues. our operations, empowering both employees and contractors to DISTINGUISHED SAFETY AWARD improve workplace safety practices through peer observations.   AFPM Incident Classification Matrix: Data collected and analyzed PLATINUM SAFETY AWARD, These programs manage employee exposure at the working from high-potential near-miss incidents across all our operating AFPM S HIGHEST HONOR LARGE OPERATOR interface   the juncture where employee activities intersect with organizations is utilized to identify areas of improvement and avert DETROIT REFINERY MPLX TERMINALS workplace conditions and management systems. serious incidents before they occur. EL PASO REFINERY ILTA s highest safety honor recognizing   Serious Injury and Fatality Task Force: This cross-functional KENAI REFINERY companies demonstrating an exemplary forum shares incident details and lessons learned from highsafety culture in the liquid terminal potential and serious incidents, with the aim to prevent them from In 2024, we completed more than 57,000 BBS 3 OF 4 INDUSTRY industry. MPLX terminals achieved an recurring. observations, leading to safety engagements ONLY RECIPIENTS incident rate of 0.10 per 200,000 hours with 131,000 employees and contractors. Each worked in 2024. Safety in Ergonomics observation was conducted by a trained observer who used a checklist to identify safety Proper ergonomic positioning for workers is an essential component ELITE SILVER AWARD to safe and effective operations. We actively perform scheduled risks and discuss safe practices. CATLETTSBURG REFINERY ergonomic evaluations on field tasks, considering the most practical National Private Truck way work is performed, and promptly address any concerns raised SAFETY PERFORMANCE 10% by employees. For example, we conduct systematic valve Council IN INDUSTRY S TOP inspections in the field to verify they are situated at an appropriate Human and Organizational Performance ergonomic height to maintain ease of control. We continue to uphold our dedication to Human and Organizational Performance (HOP) through comprehensive training HONORABLE MENTION AWARD SILVER AND BRONZE SEAL and learning teams focused on the six HOP foundational beliefs. AWARDS INNOVATION IN PERSONAL SAFETY Adopting these beliefs enhances safety by minimizing the chances DRIVER HALL OF FAME MPC TRANSPORT   RAIL of human error leading to incidents and decreasing the likelihood MPC REFINING SAFETY of serious incidents occurring. MPC REFINING IT Earned by 7 fleet locations for reduced Transport driver, Todd Young, HOP Foundational Beliefs: incident rates and/or achieving zerowas inducted into the Driver Hall of incident status. Fame by the National Private Truck   Work is complex   Context drives behaviors Council. Recognized as one of the very SAFETY ACHIEVEMENT AWARD   People make mistakes   Learning and improving is vital best in the industry for his outstanding EXEMPLARY SAFETY STANDARDS achievements in safety, Young has driven over   Blame wastes resources   How we respond matters ROBINSON REFINERY 3 million miles without a preventable accident. SALT LAKE CITY REFINERY Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 27 ENGAGED AND ENERGIZED WORKFORCE We believe our people are our greatest strength. They have Creating an Inclusive Culture enabled MPC to accomplish so much, and we want their experiences with our company to reflect the same. We 2024 WORKFORCE At MPC, we promote respect for and among our employees. We demonstrate our commitment to attracting, developing and DEMOGRAPHICS recognize that when employees feel valued, it shows in their retaining talent by empowering our people, prioritizing performance. We look to create opportunities for employees to accountability, upholding a culture of safety, providing connect in meaningful ways in order to create the welcoming extensive leadership and professional development community we know is so important. opportunities, recognizing and rewarding accomplishments, 18,250 Our employee networks, for example, are one way we support this and offering benefits that support the well-being of our goal by offering voluntary opportunities for employees to connect employees and their families. total employees with others. Any employee may elect to join any of the seven Core Values groups   focusing on Asian, Black, Disability, Hispanic, LGBTQ , Veterans and Women. Led by employees, with involvement and support from executive sponsors, our networks have equal access Our Core Values guide the decisions we make and the 1,800  to resources and support, and visibility to colleagues from across actions we take every day. They describe the spirit of who the company. They provide opportunities for networking and we are as a company and are at the heart of our success. new employees community involvement. Over 5,100 employees belong to our We are proud of the work we do to provide the essential seven employee networks. energy products and services that help meet the world s growing energy needs. We believe how we perform our Additionally, each month our Findlay Community Action Team 480  work holds equal importance with the work we perform, and invites employees to an afternoon cup of coffee. Employees gather living our Core Values is the way we demonstrate what for coffee, a sweet treat and conversation, and can obtain matters most to us. students completed internships information about the work of a monthly featured community nonprofit organization. In 2024, our executive team examined these principles that guide our behaviors and decisions and introduced our Core We also utilize technology to offer employees across our footprint Value of Excellence as we strive for exceptional opportunities to connect with others in virtual communities. These 42% performance in all we do and embrace continuous digital communities reflect the rich tapestry of employee improvement. professional and personal interests and include groups sharing of open positions filled by about everything from project management methodologies and As we continue to innovate and evolve, we are committed to internal candidates professional development to furry friends, alma maters, healthy holding ourselves accountable to these high standards   recipes, knitting and photography. These groups take advantage of both to honor our legacy and to light our path forward. technology to support relationship building and exchange of   Safety and Environmental Stewardship information anywhere in our network. 11 years   Integrity JUST   Inclusion average tenure of employees   Collaboration 100   Excellence 5% recognized by JUST Capital as one of America s 2025 most voluntary turnover rate just companies1 1 For more information on JUST 100, please visit their website. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 28 Building a Talented Workforce Talent Acquisition Campus Partnerships MPC is a great family and customerAt MPC, executing our strategic vision requires us to attract University partnerships are a key component of MPC s oriented company with fantastic and retain the best talent by offering new employees tools campus recruiting strategy, creating additional opportunities for success and providing opportunities for long-term NAMED ONE OF THE for the company to engage with premier talent and more values and people. I never feel like I engagement and career advancement. We strive to be 2024 TOP COMPANIES FOR effectively build our early career pipeline. have to go to work, I feel like I get to known as an employer of choice. Our Talent Acquisition WOMEN TO WORK FOR IN As part of our ongoing efforts to find the best talent, we have team consists of three segments: Executive recruiting, TRANSPORTATION BY WOMEN assembled dedicated campus teams that attend career go to work. I love the work I do daily experienced recruiting and campus recruiting. The events, host workshops and information sessions, and IN TRUCKING ASSOCIATION specialization within each group allows us to address because I know it helps the lives of support campus events or projects at 42 universities across MPC s broad range of current and future talent needs, as for the third year in a row. 21 states. In 2024, we hired students from 85 colleges and people all over the country. well as devote time and attention to candidates during the universities spanning 30 states and Puerto Rico. hiring process. Acquiring talent is an opportunity to bring new perspectives NICKOLAS MORALES into our workforce, and we actively seek candidates with a MPC has given me real-world Commercial Intern,   To learn more about this recognition, visit our website. variety of backgrounds and experience. We are dedicated experience that I can t get in now full-time employee to enhancing our existing programs and exploring new initiatives to support the retention and recruitment of the classroom. The company talented employees. In 2024, we welcomed more than environment and culture are 1,800 new employees into MPC. truly employee focused; I feel Our primary source of full-time, entry-level new hires is our intern and co-op program. Through this program, we offer very lucky to be part of it. I college students who have completed their freshman year the opportunity to gain hands-on experience in the areas of haven t met one employee engineering, IT, accounting, finance, marketing, supply who doesn t have my success chain and other disciplines. In 2024, more than 480 students completed one or more internships at MPC and and best interest at heart. more than 110 of those converted to full-time employees. During their time at MPC, our interns and co-ops are paired EMMA RAKOWSKI with mentors to help transform classroom knowledge into Recognized among the practical, real-world experience. In addition to their Human Resources Intern, assigned duties, many interns also participate in activities now full-time employee Top 100 led by the MPC Intern/Co-Op Advisory Board (ICAB). ICAB supports intern and co-op development by hosting Internship volunteer events, business unit overviews, and Programs presentations on topics of importance at MPC, like sustainability, wellness and fostering an inclusive culture. by National Intern Day Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 29 Investing In Our Employees Competitive Compensation and Benefits Work-Life Balance Our compensation and benefits programs are designed to attract, MPC recognizes that time off is a valued benefit for our COMPREHENSIVE BENEFITS recognize, retain and encourage quality performance and employees and an important element of mental and physical meaningful contributions from our employees. wellness. As a result, our standard vacation allotment is a We provide benefit programs to support our employees through various stages of their careers and life events. In 2024, minimum of three weeks paid time off with potential to receive To support our recruitment and retention efforts with competitive we significantly upgraded our employee benefits website to make it more user-friendly, enabling employees to easily up to six weeks. pay and benefits packages, we conduct an annual benchmark of discover and navigate the benefits available to them. compensation against our peers. This comparison includes base To provide additional flexibility and recognize the changing salaries, bonus levels, long-term incentive targets, as well as health needs of our workforce, our corporate holidays include eight benefits such as medical, dental and vision insurance, plus pension observed holidays plus two floating holidays. Key Benefits and savings programs. Where the role allows, we give employees the flexibility to work Our compensation programs are designed to reflect and align with remotely one day per week or observe an alternative work Employee Well-Being Financial Well-Being MPC s pay-for-performance compensation philosophy. schedule, such as a 9/80 arrangement, in which employees work   Medical, dental, and vision plans with covered annual   A company-funded pension and 401(k) thrift plan with 7% a compressed schedule with every other Friday off. Our annual bonus program is a key component of our preventive exams employer match compensation structure, offering individual rewards based on We are committed to supporting our employees by providing the MPC s performance against predefined financial and nonfinancial necessary time off for a variety of reasons. Our Educational   Basic life and accident insurances, and short-term and   Company Thrift Plan contribution on student loan goals. Every MPC employee is eligible for our bonus program, Leave program allows unpaid time off to pursue a degree, while long-term disability are provided to all employees on payments encouraging a sense of ownership and uniting us toward the same our Military Leave provides up to two years of paid time off for their first day of employment at no cost to employees goals. service. In times of loss, Bereavement Leave offers paid time off   Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account for employees to grieve and attend to family matters.   10 free counseling sessions per issue through our with eligible childcare and/or elder care needs to increase Nearly 100% of salaried, salaried non-exempt, hourly and union Employee Assistance Program, which also extends to tax savings opportunities employees were rewarded with additional compensation in 2025 each household member based on 2024 company performance.   Tax-advantaged Health Savings Account (HSA) with an   Clinical and emotional support programs beyond annual company contribution All senior leaders, most employees in leadership roles and highexpectant parents to include family building (fertility, performing individual contributors receive annual long-term Life Moments adoption and surrogacy), post-delivery maternity care, incentive awards. These awards align a portion of their parenting support and menopause support   Extended paid physical recovery time for birth mothers; and compensation to the interests of MPC shareholders and MPLX four paid weeks of bonding time for all new parents unitholders, as well as provide a retention award for our most   Paid sick leave of seven days off each calendar year experienced and top-performing employees.   Unpaid leave for qualifying personal reasons not covered by   Vacation time of three to six weeks paid time off each other leaves Additionally, we offer leader-nominated monetary and peer-tocalendar year peer non-monetary recognition throughout the year, as well as   Thorough coverage for fertility treatments anniversary service awards to celebrate the achievements and   Adoption assistance up to  10,000 per adoption special milestones of our team. This fosters an environment of appreciation, engagement, and gratitude where we can thrive   Surrogacy assistance benefit that reimburses up to  20,000 together. for qualifying surrogacy expenses   Competitive college scholarships for children of employees   For more information on employee benefits, please visit our website. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 30 Employee Training and Development Investing in our workforce is one of the most important Career Development Frameworks Leadership Development investments we can make as a company. We ensure that A Career Development Framework is being prepared to employees at every level receive training that equips them We offer leadership development programs across the company that integrate encompass each job function across the company. This with the knowledge and skills necessary to perform their daily business and leadership content with MPC s leadership competencies. These framework aims to ensure consistency and transparency in job functions safely and effectively. At the same time, we offer programs are delivered in collaboration with internal experts and external industry career progression and development. It consists of a standard a wide range of development tools and opportunities to leaders. We employ a variety of training methods to cater to different learning styles 550 structure with career bands, career levels and job titles, along prepare them for growth and advancement within MPC. and engage effectively. Additionally, our experience shows that opportunities for with clearly defined job responsibilities, skills and competencies networking and direct access to our executive team are invaluable to learning and employees Our approach to employee learning and development is to support employee growth. This foundational work is critical to development. These opportunities are integrated into all programs to foster participated in MPC closely aligned with our business strategies, combining providing an integrated and holistic approach to employee connections and provide insights from top-level leadership. leadership programs classroom training, online courses and on-the-job training and development and talent planning, equipping employees with the in 2024 experience. We track these initiatives through a companywide tools and insights they need to take charge of their careers at learning management system. This comprehensive strategy MPC with the support of their leaders. supports our employees  continuous growth and contributes Career Development Plans 2024 MPC LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS to the overall success of the company. Employees and supervisors may collaborate to identify specific, achievable career goals and develop a plan to achieve them. This process involves assessing the employee s strengths, areas 1 million  training hours recorded by MPC for improvement and aspirations. Supervisors then hold regular Supervisor Development Program Advanced Leadership Program employees in 2024, with each employee development check-ins with employees to monitor progress, This program, led by external subject matter experts, helps Instructed by faculty at the Kenan-Flagler Business School for recording an average of 69.2 training hours provide feedback, and adjust plans as necessary. leaders enhance their skills in key areas such as coaching, Executive Education at the University of North Carolina, this setting expectations, accountability, leading change, giving program equips participants with tools to think more LinkedIn Learning feedback and recognition, and managing conflict. strategically, lead change, and develop the knowledge and The LinkedIn Learning online platform provides salaried leadership capabilities to work collaboratively across Employee Development employees, co-ops and interns with access to a broad range of 334 employees participated organizations. It emphasizes incorporating varied perspectives expert-led courses and tutorials, covering topics from technical to unlock the highest potential of both participants and their As part of our focus on employee growth and development, skills to leadership development. Focused on professional Strategic Leadership Program employees. MPC creates and deploys resources designed to enhance growth, LinkedIn Learning empowers employees to obtain new Presented by faculty at the David Eccles School of Business skills development and professional growth. Many skills and stay current with industry trends, supporting continuous at the University of Utah, this program deepens participants  27 employees participated employees indicated a strong interest in this area through learning and development. In 2024, 95% of eligible employees understanding of MPC s business strategy and the dynamics past employee surveys. Resources we provide include utilized LinkedIn Learning. of strategic leadership. It helps them evaluate opportunities Commercial Skills behavioral and technical training programs, online/virtual for enhanced value creation within their organizations in the Taught by MPC senior business leaders and external subject training in partnership with LinkedIn Learning, mentoring This platform complements our other career development context of the larger enterprise and prepares them to lead matter experts, this course enhances participants  relationships, rotational programs, internal job postings that resources, contributing to a comprehensive approach to their teams with a stronger strategic focus. understanding of MPC s business operations and equips them promote career mobility, career development discussions professional growth. with the skills needed to identify, evaluate, negotiate and and documented plans, career guides and our annual Performance Review Process 48 employees participated execute commercial activities in support of MPC s strategic performance review process. priorities. Participants gain practical knowledge in strategy and Career Development Profiles Our performance review process helps employees focus on the Leadership Experience portfolio management, linking strategy to business opportunity core aspects of their jobs, align expectations with their Delivered by MPC business leaders and external subject identification, economic evaluation, risk characterization, Employees are encouraged to create career profiles, making supervisors, and reflect on their accomplishments within the matter experts, this course combines instruction with practical negotiations, ethics, key legal issues and relationship it easy to share basic career information about themselves, context of how they were achieved. Each year, supervisors and learning to cover essential skills and business topics, management. including work experience, education and skills, with employees establish up to five performance commitments. At the including leadership, financial analysis, decision-making, and leaders, managers and colleagues. Keeping career profiles end of the performance cycle, employees receive a scorecard coaching and developing others. 86 employees participated up to date is important, as it helps leaders and managers that summarizes results, including assessments of their make informed decisions regarding talent development and performance, knowledge and skills and how well they succession planning. 55 employees participated demonstrated our values. Nearly 100% of our salaried employees participate in our performance process each year. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 31 Health and Wellness Employee Engagement The health and well-being of our employees is vital to the success of   Wellness Champion Network Employee Experience Survey our company. Our Health Services group delivers a comprehensive MPC has over 175 Well ALL Ways Champions   employees approach to provide employee support through our network of 19 As part of our commitment to being an employer of choice who commit to connecting colleagues with our wellness occupational health clinics, 24/7 nurse phone line and a diverse and continuing to make MPC a great place to work, we programs, providing peer support and fostering a culture of range of wellness resources. These resources are available to all provide opportunities for employees to share feedback well-being. employees and span from specialized health coaching to enterprisethrough various forums. Understanding our employees  wide challenges and rewards. In 2024, Champions planted on-site gardens, planned wellness experiences at MPC and hearing employee perspectives challenges, organized health fairs, held lunch-n-learns, and provide insights that enable us to strengthen and better Encouraging Employees to be Well ALL Ways more, funded by MPC s Champion Grant program. They also position the company and our people for the future. We participated in the seventh annual Wellness Champion Summit have implemented a contemporary process for gathering Well ALL Ways, MPC s wellness program, emphasizes to employees to showcase achievements, engage in training sessions and and evaluating employee feedback using a variety of tools the importance of taking care of themselves. Well ALL Ways focuses discuss plans for the upcoming year. that enable frequent engagement. These include on preventive health and offers a financial incentive to eligible conducting targeted  pulse  surveys throughout the year employees who complete an online well-being assessment and a Critical Incident Stress Management and holding focus groups for deeper, direct engagement preventive physical exam with an approved health care provider. with employees and to better understand the input Eligible employees can earn a  400 payroll stipend and an In 2024, MPC introduced Critical Incident Stress Management, a collected through surveys. Pulse surveys help us better additional  200 if their qualified spouse or domestic partner program designed to support employees who have been exposed and more frequently understand how we re doing at completes the preventive exam. In 2024, over 11,000 individuals to a critical incident or traumatic event, whether arising within a creating positive experiences for our employees over received preventive physical exams and took online well-being personal or work context. The program provides specialized crisis time, and the findings are used to learn more about assessments through the Well ALL Ways program. support that seeks to lessen the impact to those affected by potential opportunities for improvement. normalizing emotional reactions, encouraging coping skills and Ways to be Well ALL Ways facilitating access to continued care. This team of trained health In early 2024, we conducted a pulse survey that built upon services employees are strategically placed across the enterprise, what we learned the prior year by asking questions We also promote healthy lifestyles through engaging programs. Our with plans to expand the number of trained employees in the around drivers of employee experience, engagement and team of professionals, in partnership with WebMD Health Services, future. well-being, including an open-text question to capture lead virtual and on-site programs on a variety of health and wellness employees  perspectives in their own voices. It also will topics. These initiatives are designed to enhance overall well-being help us measure progress in our identified priority areas. at work and beyond. By adopting positive habits, our employees These include supporting employees with more experience improved physical and mental outcomes, supporting meaningful career conversations, collaborating with personal growth and contributing to a safer and more productive excellence and communicating our strategy to employees. workplace. WELL ALL WAYS FOCUSES ON FIVE Our work is ongoing, and we are implementing actions to Our wellness resources include: KEY ASPECTS: support identified opportunities in different ways across   Mental Health Awareness Program the company. This process helps us create positive Let s TALK is our mental health awareness initiative, designed to experiences for our people. promote mental well-being and provide tools and resources. Occupational Throughout the year, employees can participate in various how we foster safe and engaging work webinars on topics like navigating stress, coping with change and connecting with others. Financial how we we build toward financial stability   WebMD One Wellness Portal and Health Coaching 11 years The wellness platform offers tools, resources, personalized Social recommendations, and access to events and workshops. Nearly how we connect with others average tenure of MPC 12,000 employees are registered users in the portal. Through employees WebMD, employees also have access to one-on-one lifestyle Physical coaches who provide guidance and accountability throughout their how we fuel our bodies wellness journey. In 2024, this program had over 1,400 employee coaching engagements. Mental how we respond to life Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 32 Engage STAKEHOLDERS AND COMMUNITIES We are committed to building relationships in our communities, consistently pursuing opportunities to create shared value with our stakeholders. Building Relationships 33 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 33 BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS At MPC and MPLX, we seek to build genuine relationships in our Connecting with Communities Good Neighbor Program communities, and we steadfastly pursue opportunities to create STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PLANS shared value with our stakeholders. We are focused on Our Terminals organization is committed to making a positive Marathon Pipe Line LLC (MPL), a wholly owned subsidiary of understanding their goals, perspectives and concerns and impact through the Good Neighbor program. This program MPLX, continues to advance its public engagement program, Our stakeholder engagement plans are blueprints that working to integrate their feedback into our business and invests in local communities, engages and educates neighbors, Earning Your Trust. This program engages and educates provide intentional engagement strategies tailored to engagement strategies. Through regular communication, and supports first-responder organizations through grants and landowners, community members, schools and public officials each location to advance relationships, enhance our ongoing evaluation of community needs and providing partnerships. about pipeline safety and infrastructure. In 2024, MPL company profile and meet the needs of the communities accessible feedback channels, we foster meaningful conducted a record of nearly 330 in-person events, reaching In 2024, employees made an impact through over 350 we serve. We regularly communicate with key engagement. Our relationship-building strategies are over 750,000 people with a pipeline safety message and community engagements and  220,000 in grants to support stakeholders and evaluate local issues through ongoing continuously refined to stay aligned with the evolving needs of providing an opportunity to engage. local communities and first responders. dialogue, surveys and other feedback mechanisms to our stakeholders and our company. keep our strategies relevant. This is important to: Agricultural Community Outreach   Cultivate meaningful relationships We Are Listening Having good relationships Pipeline damage caused by third parties remains a significant   Create and maintain an open dialogue risk in agricultural areas. MPL s proactive approach in 2024   Identify concerns, develop and implement solutions Engaging means being readily accessible, actively connecting with stakeholders within the focused on education through face-to-face engagement with within the communities where we operate, acknowledging their   Collaborate for success, where appropriate farmers. concerns, and collaboratively exploring solutions. community, like Marathon, We coordinate stakeholder engagements across our   The Depth of Cover Management program reached over organization to understand and address our stakeholders  Community Hotlines made this grant possible. 650 farmers to explore community risk mitigation plans needs and interests, while driving progress toward our that protect shallow pipe in their tillable fields. We believe being accessible to our communities is a shared goals. We have stakeholder engagement plans in fundamental aspect of being a good neighbor. Neighbors of our   The program made more than 360 direct contacts with place for 100% of our refineries and owned-and-operated PORT ANGELES FIRE DEPARTMENT facilities and landowners along our pipeline rights of way can drain tiling companies to emphasize the importance of renewable fuels facilities. We are enhancing relationships First Responder Grant Recipient contact us to ask questions or report concerns 24 hours a day, contacting 811 before every installation project. with neighbors, landowners and tribes near our MPLX seven days a week via our hotlines and emergency phone lines, assets through ongoing dialogue and proactive   Through MPL s Feed A Farmer program, employees or to leave a message. Our teams route messages to the Throughout the year, MPC and MPLX engagement programs engagements. personally delivered meals to nearly 300 farmers along appropriate area and are empowered to escalate concerns are proudly undertaken by our own employees. These our pipeline routes during peak farming season. Stakeholder Engagement Process when necessary. ambassadors know our companies, focus on building Our stakeholder engagement process begins with   To continually improve our community engagement relationships and exemplify our values and safety culture. building relationships by openly engaging in dialogue to Community Advisory Groups strategy, four focus groups were conducted with farmers, understand the needs and concerns of our stakeholders, tilers and irrigation contractors. Through these focus MPC Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) and multi-industry define mutual priorities and identify resources that create groups, we gained important perspectives on safe farming Community Advisory Councils (CACs) are comprised of shared value in pursuit of common goals. Our leaders and practices, feedback on our educational materials and community members and representatives from various teams at our facilities are guided to engage key engagement activities, and gauged the overall backgrounds and are established at all our major refining assets. stakeholders and audiences according to each unique trustworthiness of our messages. These community advisory bodies hold regular meetings that relationship. This tailored approach helps us to address are informative and engaging forums where members can learn Responsiveness in Action needs specific to each community. 2024 Common more about MPC and our operational and community initiatives   Define priorities, impacts and issues and understand and projects, as well as ask questions, raise concerns and In 2024, MPL received over 1,500 public inquiries. Most Ground Alliance the community highlight opportunities. phone calls to our MPL community hotlines were general   Identify stakeholders inquiries. Less than 4% of these inquiries were complaints, President s Award of and 96% of all calls were responded to within three business   Develop a stakeholder engagement plan days, with an average response time of 14 hours. Corporate Excellence   Engage with stakeholders   Track and measure engagement awarded to MPL for its dedication to   Create shared value public engagement and pipeline damage prevention Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 34 Engaging with Tribal Neighbors MPC and MPLX are committed to fostering collaborative Purposeful Engagement Drives Impact relationships with tribal nations and pueblos in the areas where TRIBAL NEIGHBORS we operate. As sovereign nations, tribes are important Connecting with Tribal Youth OPERATION WARM government, business partner and community stakeholders. We HIGHLIGHTS MPC s collaboration with nonprofit partner Operation Warm respect each tribe s unique traditions, language, set of customs provides coats and shoes to underserved children across and government. To build a foundation for engaging   Alaska Native Corporations and Tribes nearly 20 tribes within our operational footprint. MPC partnerships, we seek to gain cultural understanding by   Cherokee Nation volunteers help make these events come to life by helping 5-year 60 communicating and consulting with tribal communities. children try on coats and shoes.   Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes Consistent with our Core Values, we seek tribal perspectives on partnership distribution events   Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma safety and the preservation of cultural and environmental The emotional impact is powerful.   Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla resources to inform our planning and execution of projects and   Jicarilla Apache Nation It goes beyond money to a human operational activities. Stakeholder engagement plans guide our 26,500 1,000  interaction with tribes, pueblos and communities to support   Kalispel Tribe of Indians connection when volunteers shared goals.   Muscogee Nation children served employee volunteer hours interact with the children. That s   Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation Tribal Affairs Working Group the big picture, here.   Navajo Nation Our Tribal Affairs Working Group is critical to building   Osage Nation relationships founded on trust and understanding with tribal MICHAEL ANDREWS   Pawnee Nation  1.1 million  communities in our operational footprint. Membership includes invested by MPC and MPLX in 2024 to Operation Warm Senior Partnership Manager representation from across the company and a blend of   Pueblo of San Felipe directly support tribal communities where we operate experienced and emerging professionals, some of whom are   Sac and Fox Nation themselves members of tribal nations. This group works with our   Samish Indian Nation tribal partners to provide insights to engage, educate, and share   Santa Ana Pueblo Notable Tribal Investments perspectives to assist in building sustainable, mutually beneficial relationships.   Shoshone-Bannock Tribes Aligned with our community investment strategy, our investments in tribal communities directly support initiatives focused on the   Southern Ute Indian Tribe Education and training for our own team members is an important following areas: part of the support the Working Group provides. We want to be   Swinomish Indian Tribal Community sure that our employees who are engaging in these communities Workforce Development Sustainability Thriving Communities   Ute Indian Tribe have an understanding of tribal history and governance, cultural   Ute Mountain Ute Tribe Osage Nation Career and Technical Navajo Nation Village Aid Solar Mobile Drone Command Center dynamics, and styles of communication, and an awareness of the Education Programming Initiative nature and history of our business relationships and community   Ysleta del Sur Pueblo A partnership with the Muscogee investment partnerships.   Zia Pueblo Focused on Native American students To address critical energy needs (Creek) Nation in Oklahoma identified within Osage County, Oklahoma, this within the Navajo Nation, students the need for a mobile drone command Additionally, to enhance relationships where appropriate, MPC To view a map of the Indigenous communities partnership introduces students to Career from Fort Lewis College in Colorado center to strengthen search and convenes with tribal leaders in face-to-face settings to engage in near our operational footprint, please visit our and Technical Education programming and volunteers from the community rescue efforts, disaster response and dialogue and understand the goals of the tribal community. For website. geared toward providing a better have partnered with MPC to secure law enforcement operations. The example, Marathon Pipe Line LLC leaders traveled to meet with understanding of trade school programs an off-grid solar energy solution for enhanced drone technology available the Osage Nation s Tribal Council leadership including and degree options. In addition to Navajo families in need. The system in the mobile command center is department heads of education, real estate, harvest land and learning about career pathways, this aims to bring energy into homes to helping reduce response times, emergency management. In total, about 20 representatives from partnership enables MPC employees to address basic health and safety broaden areas of coverage and bridge both organizations participated in meaningful dialogue. The Named one of the Top 50 Workplaces for offer mentorship for petroleum industry needs and creates opportunities for communication gaps during benefits to both parties from this time together were invaluable Indigenous STEM Professionals in 2024 by programs and offers support through employment in grid management and emergency response events. and will help set the tone for future, quality engagements. the American Indian Science and Engineering certification processes. related fields. Society (AISES) Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 35 Community Investments MPC s community investment strategy is centered around strengthening communities and helping Charitable Contributions and Grants make people s lives better. Our focus is on 2024 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT contributions and partnerships with charitable BY THE NUMBERS By conducting broad engagement, we pursue projects that allow us to create a positive, measurable organizations that reflect the priorities of our impact and build partnerships across diverse organizations and communities. communities, align with our Core Values, amplify our sustainability strategy and enable us to make a Workforce Development Sustainability Thriving Communities positive, measurable impact.   34 million We continue to seek out new and innovative ways THE HEART RIVER INTERNATIONAL BIRD GALVESTON COUNTY to improve our communities through projects and CAREER AND TECHNICAL RESCUE, EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, programming with a broad array of organizations EDUCATION CENTER REHABILITATION AND MOBILE COMMAND CENTER invested in communities by MPC, MPLX, making a positive difference. Through longour employees and fundraising partners RESEARCH IN standing partnerships and short-term initiatives, we The Heart River Career and Technical When disaster strikes, it is imperative that CALIFORNIA invest in programs that drive workforce Education Center in Mandan, North lines of communication remain open to help development, sustainability and opportunities to Dakota, provides college dual-credit Aligned with our Core Value of Safety facilitate emergency response. MPC is support thriving communities. opportunities for area high schools and and Environmental Stewardship, our supporting Galveston County, Texas, by  23.7 million  5,000  hands-on experience in construction, investments with International Bird helping provide reliable communication agriculture, manufacturing, health care, Rescue (IBR) in Northern California are redundancy should primary services become welding, culinary arts and other highhelping fund wildlife rescue and unavailable or impacted by an emergency or invested in communities by nonprofits supported demand occupational fields. rehabilitation, wildlife emergency disaster. MPC and MPLX Workforce response and preparedness services, Our investment supported the To ensure responders have an effective, Development research, outreach and education. development and opening of the facility interoperable communications platform to enabling the opportunity for students, In Southern California, IBR is treating support a coordinated response to incidents, educators, adult learners and and rehabilitating nearly 1,500 native, a recent investment from MPC provided a 57,600   4.6 million businesses in the area to collaborate on wild, avian patients near the Ports of Los cellular tower for cellular and internet COMMUNITY workforce development. Angeles and Long Beach. MPC s connectivity that prioritizes first responders, donated by employees hours volunteered support is helping cover costs of as well as a trailer to transport the system to INVESTMENT   To learn more about how MPC is nutrition, medicine and supplies, areas throughout Galveston County that enhancing career pathways in North veterinary care and habitat conditioning. need assistance. priorities Dakota, please visit our website. In 2024, MPC contributed more than  1.2   To learn more about how MPC is million to first-responder organizations in our  5.6 million 175,000  supporting bird rehabilitation, please visit Thriving Sustainability our website. operational footprint. Communities raised through company-led social impacts reported¹ fundraisers 1 Social impacts reported by organizations that received MPC grants of  20,000 . Data includes a mix of initial results, interim estimates and final reports and may fluctuate as programs/projects near completion. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 36 Measuring Social Impact Employee Giving and Volunteer Programs Each year, we measure the social impact of our community Our employees are dedicated to helping communities, and we support investments of  20,000 or more using third-party surveys them through our giving and volunteerism programs. To support their completed by the benefiting organization of the program. Results investments of time and money, we provide a robust matching gifts of the survey are used to continually improve and maximize program and reward those who so generously volunteer their time. 890  impacts of our investments within communities where we operate. Volunteer Incentive Program awards earned by Employee Open Giving Program MPC employees in 2024, We match 100% of employee donations  448,000 2024 HIGH-IMPACT totaling   to qualified 501(c)(3) organizations, up to COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS1  10,000 per calendar year.  12.8 million  community investments of over Higher Education Giving Programs  20,000 to more than 200 organizations Additionally, we match up to  10,000 for qualified gifts to twoand four-year accredited colleges and universities. Volunteer Incentive Program (VIP) Our VIP allows employees to earn a  500 award for the charity of their Workforce Development Sustainability Thriving Communities choice by volunteering 24 hours or Impact Preparing more individuals for Protecting the environment and Meeting basic needs   beyond more with qualified nonprofits. Summary professional success through wildlife while promoting assistance with food and shelter, we Employees may earn one individual vocational training, career readiness, sustainability and conservation are improving access to resources award and one group award for a total technical internships and through educational experiences like youth development and safety of  1,000 in potential awards per year. scholarships initiatives Impacts Reported 5,400  91,000  79,000  Top   Attain, retain, or improve   Beneficiaries protect, improve   Beneficiaries gained fulfillment, Related employment health enjoyment Indicators   Earn post-secondary degree,   Metric tons of CO e reduced   Gained safety, support 2 credential   Animals saved, improved well  Beneficiaries achieve, improve   Improve productivity/professional being food security effectiveness 1 Social impacts reported by organizations that received MPC grants of  20,000 . Data includes a mix of initial results, interim estimates and final reports and may fluctuate as programs/projects near completion. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 37 Responsible Supply Chain Management Our strong relationships with business partners and clear Supplier Selection Process performance expectations are the foundation for 2024 Non-U.S. Spend by Country2 responsible and sustainable supply chain management.   9 billion spent with 9,000  suppliers in 20241 Our supplier selection process manages risk within our supply chain. (non-U.S. spend %) Through this valuable process, potential suppliers are evaluated against key In fluctuating geopolitical and market landscapes, we safety metrics and programs. Between the use of predominantly U.S. work with a diverse network of suppliers that can quickly domestic suppliers bound by U.S. laws and regulations and focused vetting respond to meet the needs of our business and help us Canada (31%) of international suppliers, our strategic procurement decisions reduce to creatively navigate challenges and reduce risk. Supplier Code of Conduct Ireland (29%) supplier risks related to personnel safety, environmental protection and We strive to proactively identify and evaluate factors that Italy (8%) human rights. Our Supplier Code of Conduct details our expectations of can influence the availability of goods and services United Kingdom (4%) suppliers because how we conduct ourselves is as important We strive to partner with suppliers that are dedicated to high safety, ethical required to support our operations and align our strategic Netherlands (12%) as the results achieved. and quality standards; offer innovative, value-added capabilities; superior and operational decisions accordingly, with the objective Mexico (8%) technology, cost and service; and adhere to our Core Values in how they do of ensuring continuity. As a precondition to participating in our standard bidding Spain (2%) business. We periodically review our purchasing practices for alignment with We support these aspirations and build resilience within process, potential suppliers must first acknowledge and accept Other (6%) our Code of Business Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct. the Supplier Code of Conduct. Additionally, we communicate our supply chain by clearly communicating the expectations of our Code of Business Conduct and with suppliers annually, reiterating their responsibilities and No significant changes to our Tier 1 suppliers occurred in 2024 that would accountabilities to conduct their business in accordance with cause or contribute to significant economic, environmental or social impacts. Supplier Code of Conduct, educating procurement our Supplier Code of Conduct and Code of Business Conduct. teams, maintaining strong supplier selection criteria, focusing on mitigation of risk, and underpinning long-term We also provide an Integrity Helpline and encourage suppliers Supplier Engagement to anonymously report suspected unethical or illegal acts. business relationships with strong supplier engagement. Strong partnerships with our suppliers are critical to operating in a safe SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY We seek to enhance our supplier risk management The Supplier Code of Conduct emphasizes expectations of and reliable manner. We rely on suppliers to provide essential goods ASSESSMENT program by addressing the most value-added suppliers in the areas of: and services, align with our Core Values and drive superior results. improvement opportunities and implementing processes Annual business reviews provide one opportunity for direct   Compliance with laws and business ethics that mitigate risk more effectively. engagement to discuss business priorities, emerging needs and   Environmental, health, safety and security opportunities. Employee Education Initiatives are in place, where appropriate, to assess suppliers   Conflict minerals on sustainability performance and compliance with our At MPC and MPLX, we value diversity of backgrounds, experiences, Supply chain personnel receive training each year on a Supplier Code of Conduct. Initiatives include: skills and ideas to provide a competitive business advantage. Through   Conflicts of interest variety of responsible procurement topics. Trainings may our Supplier Diversity program, we offer certified and qualified diverse   Prequalification reviews of potential and existing suppliers focus on supplier expectations and management of   Business courtesies suppliers, including local and small businesses, an equal opportunity to to assess health, environmental, safety and security health, safety and environmental matters; compliance and   Human rights bid on, compete for, and perform procurement contracts. All bid programs and performance. Results are considered during ethics expectations embedded within our Supplier Code selections and contract awards are based on merit. This program helps   Diversity and inclusion the supplier selection process. Utilization of digital of Conduct; supplier selection criteria, qualifications, and to stimulate local economic development and advance our desktop tools to evaluate sector and geographic risk. ensuring a fair and inclusive competitive bidding process;   Compliance assurance commitment to the creation of shared value where we operate. and risk factors including human rights.   Daily screenings of all new and existing suppliers for   Reporting unethical or illegal acts Each year, we also recognize suppliers for outstanding performance identity verification, regulatory compliance and security through our Supplier Recognition Awards program. In 2024, a total of concerns. 15 awards were given, and we look forward to presenting a refreshed   On-site supplier inspections conducted for providers of awards slate aligned to our Core Values and in celebration of the 10th certain products or services. anniversary of the awards program. 6,000  hours of sustainability-related training for supply chain employees   Certified partner of Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism, voluntarily working with U.S. Customs and Border Protection on best practices of imported materials. 1 Excludes crude/feedstock purchases. 2  Other  category includes the following countries, each having spend of 2% or less: Australia, Belgium, Germany, India and Switzerland. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 38 Respecting Human Rights Respecting human rights is fundamental to our Core Values of Human Rights Due Diligence Integrity, Inclusion and Collaboration. MPC s and MPLX s Policy on Human Rights, Including the Rights of Indigenous People, 31:8 PROJECT, BAKKEN HUMAN MPC maintains a human rights due diligence process through the Risk Assessments and Monitoring: We conduct assessments, as represents our commitment to respect the human, cultural and TRAFFICKING SUMMIT following key practices. needed, to identify potential human rights impacts associated legal rights of all individuals and communities. We expect our with certain aspects of our operations. These assessments take a Policy and Governance: Our Human Rights Policy articulates our suppliers, contractors and other business partners to likewise In 2024, MPC sponsored the Bakken Human risk-based approach to help us understand the human rights commitment to respecting human rights of our employees and respect human rights and to prevent or remediate negative Trafficking Summit presented by North Dakotalandscape in the regions where we operate. members of the community, including Indigenous communities, human rights impacts in their respective activities. based nonprofit 31:8 Project. MPC sent team throughout our operations. The Policy formalizes our commitment This may include considerations as part of our responsible members to attend the two-day summit in Minot, MPC and MPLX must follow company policies and comply with and gives definition to how we characterize human rights by setting sourcing strategy for specific commodities, the practices of our North Dakota, to hear from public health experts, laws and regulations related to human rights. We also work forth specific risk areas that our various due diligence practices aim critical suppliers or considerations pertaining to a significant police, prosecutors and survivors and increase within our sphere of influence and business operations, as to address, for example, child labor, freedom of association and investment or major project. We work to mitigate impacts from our awareness of human exploitation and labor appropriate, to reduce the risk of violations by identifying and collective bargaining, harassment and discrimination, and security. projects and operations responsibly and strive to contribute to the trafficking issues facing the Midwest. monitoring risks, maintaining avenues for reporting concerns This Policy aligns with international standards, including the United communities in which we operate. Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Voluntary and taking steps to mitigate potential impacts and risks. Additionally, we monitor our human rights performance and Principles on Security and Human Rights. evaluate the performance of certain suppliers through regular Our Supplier Code of Conduct likewise includes human rights reviews. If a controversy is found, we monitor the situation and expectations of the majority of our suppliers. may engage to learn more and inquire about what remediation is occurring. Stakeholder Engagement: We engage with local communities and tribes, employees, suppliers and investors to understand their Grievance Mechanisms: We have established grievance human rights concerns and perspectives pertaining to our company mechanisms that allow for reporting of human rights concerns by TRUCKERS AGAINST and/or sector. This helps us identify potential areas of risk and employees, community members and others. Channels for raising TRAFFICKING develop appropriate mitigation strategies. concerns may include Community Advisory Panels (CAPs), widely communicated and accessible community hotlines, direct Our Tribal Affairs Working Group supports our internal teams with a community engagements, and our 24/7, toll-free Integrity proactive approach to building relationships with tribes and pueblos MPC has expanded its partnership with Truckers Helpline. We then work to manage, respond to and resolve issues within our operational footprint, which begins with seeking to Against Trafficking (TAT). Since launching the in a timely manner. understand their culture and unique history, traditions and beliefs. initiative in 2023, Marathon Petroleum has trained Awareness and Collaboration: We collaborate with industry more than 870 employees in its Transportation Training: Executive officers and salaried employees take ethics and peers and nongovernmental organizations to enhance our compliance training that discusses components relevant to human and Rail organization to identify human trafficking awareness of human rights risks and mitigation practices, and to rights issues, including the importance of maintaining a safe, healthy situations on the road and how to report help us stay informed about best practices. and fair work environment. Our Board of Directors receives periodic suspicious activity. Nearly 700 of those certified are fleet drivers. updates on ethics and compliance topics and, like our employees, By implementing these measures, we aim to mitigate human its members certify yearly their adherence with the Code of rights risks within our operations and to respect and uphold the The TAT training is voluntary, but interest in the Business Conduct, or disclose any exceptions. rights of our stakeholders. This comprehensive approach reflects program has been great. As a result, MPC is our commitment to integrating human rights considerations into Supply Chain: We expect suppliers and contractors to respect bringing awareness to other parts of the business, our business operations and maintaining our social license to human rights. Certain suppliers are required to comply with our including safety teams and employee network operate. Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes provisions related to groups, with collaborative sessions involving human rights,our expectations for compliance with social-related industry, law enforcement and government clauses in their MPC contracts and adherence to our fundamental representatives. values, policies and procedures in how they do business. It also communicates our expectation that they will identify, and monitor   To learn more about how our drivers are raising risks and remediate any violations. awareness, please visit our website. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 39 Execute WITH INTEGRITY We are committed to integrating sustainability in our decision-making and upholding accountable and transparent governance. Accountable and Transparent Governance 40 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 40 ACCOUNTABLE AND TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE Our Board of Directors GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS MPC s Board provides oversight for our company operations Abdulaziz F. Alkhayyal Maryann T. Mannen and activities, as well as our strategic direction, including Former Senior Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, sustainability objectives. The Board believes that MPC s Industrial Relations, Saudi Aramco Marathon Petroleum Corporation commitment to strong corporate governance benefits all our ACDEFGH ABCDEFGH stakeholders, including our shareholders, our people, Independent business partners, customers, communities and governments. oversight 83% Eileen P. Paterson As new director candidates are selected, the Board continues Evan Bayh 10 of 12 directors, 83%, Former Chief Executive Officer and its commitment to include candidates with a wide variety of Senior Advisor, Apollo Global Management President, Aerojet Rocketdyne Holdings, Inc. are independent. skills, professional experience, backgrounds and ACDEGHJK ABCDEGHJ perspectives. Criteria for consideration set forth in our Corporate Governance Principles also include demonstrated leadership capabilities, integrity and judgment, record of public service, and an understanding of sustainability. Jeffrey C. Campbell Kim K.W. Rucker 6 years of average 0-3 years         Former Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Former Executive Vice President, As part of our ongoing Board refreshment process, we tenure Officer, American Express Company General Counsel and Secretary, Andeavor 4-6 years       welcomed three new independent directors in 2024: ACDEGHIK ACDEFGHJK As of Aug. 1, 2025, the Kimberly Ellison-Taylor, Eileen Paterson and Jeff Campbell. 7-9 years       average tenure of Together, they bring expertise in technology, operations, 10  years     directors was 6 years. finance and risk management to our Board. Jonathan Z. Cohen Frank M. Semple For information about the individuals serving on the MPLX Founder, Chief Executive Officer and President, Former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Hepco Capital Management, LLC Officer, MarkWest Energy Partners, L.P. Board of Directors, please visit the Corporate Governance section of the MPLX website. ABCDEFHJK ABCDEFH 50% gender and/or racial/ethnic diversity Kimberly N. Ellison-Taylor J. Michael Stice 50% of directors are 50% Director Skills and Expertise Key Former Executive Director of Finance Professor, The University of Oklahoma women and/or a racial/ Thought Leadership, Oracle Corporation ethnic minority or Native A Senior Leadership ABCDEFGHI ACDEGHK American tribal member. B Public Company CEO C Risk Management John P. Surma Michael J. Hennigan D Corporate Governance Lead Independent Director, Marathon Petroleum Executive Chairman, Corporation; Former Chairman and Chief Executive E Finance   Accounting Marathon Petroleum Corporation Officer, United States Steel Corporation Highly engaged F Energy Industry ABCDEFGHIK ABCDEFGHIJ Director attendance at G International Business 98% Board and committee H Sustainability meetings averaged 98% I Environmental in 2024. J Government, Legal   Regulatory K Technology   Cybersecurity Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 41 Sustainability Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS1 Compensation and Corporate Governance Sustainability and Public Policy Collaboration and communication among the Board, its Key Corporate Governance Practices Audit Committee Organization Development and Nominating Committee Committee Committee committees and MPC leadership are critical to maintaining our Our key corporate governance practices include: aligned direction on sustainability matters. Corporate impacts, RESPONSIBILITIES AND OVERSIGHT: risks and opportunities are identified and managed by   Board independence and leadership   Oversees risks associated   Oversees risk associated with   Oversees risk associated with   Oversees risks and opportunities company leadership with oversight from our Board. The Board with financial, financial our compensation programs, corporate governance matters, associated with sustainability,   10 of 12 directors are independent reporting and accounting plans and policies to help including director safety and public policy matters has the ultimate responsibility for, and is actively engaged in,   Strong independent Lead Director role reinforces effective matters ensure they do not encourage independence, Board overseeing risk. It:   Reviews our sustainability and independent leadership on the Board   Monitors compliance with excessive risk-taking composition and succession, climate reports and other key   Reviews strategic risks annually at a designated strategy Board leadership structure and regulatory requirements and   Oversees our management sustainability disclosures   Three fully independent standing Board committees meeting and on an ongoing basis throughout the year. Board effectiveness internal control systems succession planning process   Oversees establishment of our   Director elections and our human capital   Oversees the evaluation of the   Delegates responsibility for managing certain types of   Oversees our enterprise risk sustainability targets management strategies and Board, its committees and risk to its committees, which report regularly to the Board   Majority voting standard for uncontested director elections management process and   Oversees governance framework policies individual directors reviews performance on activities in their individual areas of oversight. and budgets for our political   Demonstrated commitment to Board refreshment   Oversees stakeholder   Oversees stakeholder   Reviews sustainability and contributions and lobbying engagement on compensation engagement on corporate climate risk disclosures expenditures   Directors not elected by a majority of votes cast are and human capital management governance matters within the financial reporting subject to the Board s resignation policy   Oversees stakeholder matters framework engagement related to   Board practices   Oversees business sustainability and public policy continuity, data privacy and matters   Risk oversight by the full Board and its committees cybersecurity risks   Independent directors meet regularly in executive session MPC EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM   Annual Board and committee self-evaluations, and peer Sustainability is embedded across executive committees   External Policy Committee evaluations of nominees for reelection with primary responsibility for sustainability strategies and   Health, Environment, Safety, Security   Product Quality Management standards Committee   Shareholder rights and engagement   Enterprise Risk Management Committee   Shareholder right to call a special meeting of shareholders   Strategy Steering Committee   Business Integrity Committee   Shareholder  proxy access  right to submit director ORGANIZATIONAL LEADERS nominations for inclusion in our proxy statement Drives sustainability strategies across the enterprise   Sustainability Working Group   Robust year-round shareholder engagement program   Health, Environment, Safety   Security Planning Committee   Sustainability accountability   Renewables Compliance Governance Committee   Strong oversight by the full Board and its committees   Renewables Council   Industry-leading disclosures on environmental targets and   Advocacy Steering Committee performance CROSS-FUNCTIONAL TEAMS Implement key sustainability strategies, programs and plans   Environmental Justice Team   Extensive human capital management disclosures,   International ESG Reporting Working Group including EEO-1 data   OEMS Center of Excellence   Focus on Water Team   Focus on Energy Team   Enterprise Risk Management Community of Practice   Renewables Feedstock Compliance Committee 1 Captures key sustainability-related responsibilities of the Board s four standing committees. For complete committee descriptions, see Pages 20-21 of our 2025 Proxy Statement. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 42 Operational Excellence Management System Enterprise Risk Management As set forth in our policies, standards and procedures and Companywide OEMS Tools and Resources A comprehensive Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program is Risk Governance managed through our Operational Excellence Management applied across the company to identify, assess and manage   OEMS Playbook: Published to further embed our OEMS across The ERM Community of Practice supports the ERM Committee and System (OEMS), we strive to conduct business safely, responsibly enterprise-level risks and review the effectiveness of riskthe company and provide employees with resources that comprises mid-level risk and assurance representatives and and cost effectively. Our OEMS helps us manage risks, internal mitigation strategies. Enterprise-level risks include sustainability support continual improvement and risk management. subject-matter experts across our enterprise. This group meets and external requirements, engage with our stakeholders and risks and topics such as climate change, stakeholder concerns quarterly to discuss, develop, standardize and integrate risk further deliver on our sustainability objectives. and compliance obligations, as well as other sustainability  OEMS Center of Excellence: A companywide forum of about 30 management best practices while supporting risk-based decisionrelated risks as deemed appropriate. We describe additional employees tasked with sharing best practices and lessons We began formalizing our OEMS over two decades ago with making. risks in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other filings with learned, ensuring management system approaches across MPC adherence to the Responsible Care  management system and MPLX align with the OEMS framework and promoting the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Board of Directors and executive leadership team routinely (RC14001 ). RC14001  is built on the globally recognized ISO continuous improvement of HESS PQ performance. This group review and discuss enterprise-level risks and strategies. The 14001 environmental management system and includes health, Emerging Risk Identification also reviews and develops internal and external audit Board s Audit Committee further reviews our ERM process and safety and security requirements. The scope of our OEMS goes recommendations and creates OEMS awareness content and performance trends and oversees internal controls and audits to beyond alignment with RC14001  and also aligns with ISO 9001, Our continuous and dynamic ERM process involves a crosstraining for use companywide. evaluate their effectiveness. which incorporates quality and an increased focus on a process functional review of potential, emerging enterprise-level risks, approach and engagement.   Continuous Improvement Community of Practice: A group of including risks related to sustainability. Our enterprise risk Material Risk Disclosure more than 25 employees who serve to strengthen crossmanager leads the process with quarterly executive workshops functional collaboration among organizations to support that involve key leaders who are responsible for the Material risks to our company are disclosed under the caption Risk operational excellence. The group focuses on promoting the implementation of risk mitigation strategies. Our risk analysis Factors in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and other 100% of our operations   including all use of continuous improvement tools and learning opportunities includes an examination of the causes, consequences and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Categories of refineries, renewable fuels facilities, terminals,   including leveraging the OEMS framework. interconnectivity of each enterprise-level risk, as well as the risk described in these reports include business and operational pipeline locations, transport and rail facilities, development of strategies to mitigate risks   imminent and risks, financial risks, legal and regulatory risks, and general risk processing plants, marketing and marine   OEMS Awareness Videos: Created for use companywide to potential   and position us to capitalize on new opportunities. factors. improve employee awareness and understanding of the operations   are in scope of our OEMS, which OEMS framework and structured Plan, Do, Check, Act continual has been third-party reviewed for alignment Climate-Related Risk Management improvement process. with RC14001  and ISO 9001 We carefully review, evaluate and manage climate-related risks   Employee Feedback: Employees are encouraged to provide Roles and Responsibilities and opportunities to enable us to adapt and strengthen our MPC and MPLX with continual improvement ideas by emailing resiliency. These include both transitional and physical risks that sustainability marathonpetroleum.com. BOARD OF DIRECTORS we routinely discuss with the Board s Sustainability and Public Continual Improvement through OEMS   To view our OEMS Playbook, please visit our website. Policy Committee and executive and senior leadership   Oversees and reviews ERM strategies and Our OEMS outlines the requirements that will enable us to committees. performance achieve our goals, improve our performance and lead to longterm success. It provides an iterative process and tools to   For more information on how we manage climate-related risks and ERM COMMITTEE It is important to talk about how we use opportunities and the role cross-functional committees play, please continually improve the work we do through maintaining our OEMS and its successes within the see Page 7 of our annual Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios   Directs ERM progress for identifying, assessing and operational discipline and speaking up with ideas and concerns. report. Natural Gas and NGL Services managing enterprise-level risks We apply performance-based standards that complement our OEMS and establish organizational expectations. We also organization. OEMS shows us what is Regulatory Risk Oversight   Drives performance of risk-mitigation strategies periodically review and update these standards to reflect and isn t working, providing a process ERM COMMUNITY OF PRACTICE As part of our ERM process, our Board also oversees risks changes in laws or regulations, incorporate recommendations  state of the union.  This keeps related to the regulatory landscape. That includes emerging and arising from audits and incident investigations, and integrate   Supports ERM Committee to develop, standardize management informed and helps drive proposed regulations related to issues such as public and stakeholder feedback to continually improve our performance. and integrate risk management best practices employee health and safety, climate change and GHG emissions, improvement where needed. throughout the company OEMS Governance solid and hazardous waste management and permitting. NIC RONIGER The Health, Environment, Safety, Security and Product Quality Facility Integrity Senior Manager Management Committee, comprising executive leadership team members, oversees the companywide implementation of our OEMS. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 43 Compliance and Ethics Code of Business Conduct Code Training and Certification We are committed to conducting business with the highest standards of integrity and ethical conduct and in compliance with New employees complete Code training upon hire and must Our Code of Business Conduct, referred to as the  Code,  is 2024 COMPLIANCE AND applicable laws and regulations. Our Compliance and Ethics answer a questionnaire designed to help them identify and approved by the Board of Directors and based on the core ETHICS HIGHLIGHTS Program is designed to ensure all employees act legally and consider potential conflicts of interest as they begin employment. principle that we always strive to do the right thing. It is a guide ethically, and that they can report concerns without fear of for making sound business decisions by setting clear All employees complete Code training every 24 months. retaliation. expectations for ethical decision-making, accountability and Additionally, salaried employees complete an annual certification, responsibility. It focuses on the responsibility all employees have which provides a mechanism to report potential conflicts of to the public, to shareholders, and to our business partners and interest or other potential violations of the Code. By completing Roles and Responsibilities on our obligation to adhere to applicable law. the certification, employees acknowledge they have read, 100% of salaried MPC employees completed understand, and have made their best efforts to fully comply with the Code of Business Conduct certification The Code requires all employees to immediately report any CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER the Code. suspected illegal or unethical conduct connected with the business of MPC or its affiliates. It also makes clear that   Oversight of Compliance and Ethics Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers retaliation against individuals for such reporting is never acceptable. BUSINESS INTEGRITY COMMITTEE The president and chief executive officer, executive vice president 99.3% of MPC employees hired in 2024 and chief financial officer, vice president and controller, vice The Code applies to:   Promotes the effectiveness of enterprisewide completed Code of Business Conduct training president treasury and other leaders performing similar roles at Compliance and Ethics program   All MPC employees, including all employees of consolidated MPC and MPLX are subject to our Code of Ethics for Senior subsidiaries and MPC employees who provide services to Financial Officers. This additional code affirms the principles of SENIOR MANAGEMENT MPLX. honesty, integrity and sound judgment that we expect of senior   Charged with managing risks relating to legal   All officers and other senior executives of MPC and the executives who are responsible for preparing and certifying our compliance and business ethics general partner of MPLX. financial statements. 100% MPC and MPLX senior financial officers completed the Code of Ethics for Senior   All members of the Boards of Directors of MPC and the All senior financial officers must complete an annual certification to Financial Officers certification general partner of MPLX. attest that they have not acted in violation of the Code of Ethics. By completing this certification, they are committing to comply with   Business partners   including suppliers, consultants and Compliance and Ethics Program Policies the Code of Ethics on behalf of themselves and employees under contract workers   are expected to act consistently with the their supervision. Code and applicable law, and to support effective compliance MPC provides key corporate policies that relate to our programs in their own organizations. Certain suppliers also Compliance and Ethics Program on our website. Anticorruption Program must comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. We   Anticorruption communicate our expectations to these business partners Our Anticorruption program emphasizes our commitment to   Anti-Retaliation for Reporting Illegal or Unethical Conduct annually. conducting our business and operations with the highest level of integrity. Bribes of all nature are strictly prohibited, and guidance is   Conflicts of Interest Code Audits and Compliance available by policy on the exchange of business courtesies.   Equal Employment Opportunity Our performance under the Code is audited annually. This audit All employees receive anticorruption education through the Code includes specific testing of processes related to business   Harassment and Appropriate Workplace Conduct training upon hire. Further, those with job functions identified as expenses, conflicts of interest, employee disclosures, having greater corruption risk exposure receive additional training   Policy on Human Rights, Including the Rights of Indigenous anticorruption compliance, insider trading, aircraft usage and on a routine basis, at least every 24 months. People officer business expense reports. Objectives in these categories are reviewed and tested by MPC s Audit Assurance and Advisory   Whistleblowing as to Accounting Matters Services organization in conjunction with other company   To view these policies and our Code of Business Conduct, organizations. please visit our website. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 44 Political Contributions and Advocacy We believe participating in the political process is an essential Disclosures 24/7 Anonymous Integrity Helpline part of advancing the meaningful exchange of information and ETHICS AT THE FOREFRONT views on issues that affect our company and our stakeholders. We recognize that our public policy activities are of interest to MPC s Integrity Helpline enables employees, business partners, our stakeholders. We publicly report information for each of the community members and others to ask questions or raise MPC takes part in the political process in several ways, including past five years for the following: allegations related to workplace behavior or ethics. While all our We inform and educate employees through various lobbying, grassroots activity, issue advocacy, participating in employees are encouraged to speak with their immediate   Federal lobbying disclosure, including links to the websites initiatives, including newsletters that cover topics trade associations, supporting an active employee political supervisors or Human Resources representatives if they have of the Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives and the like conflicts of interest, data privacy, insider trading action committee and, where lawful, directly supporting political questions or concerns related to ethics and the Code, the helpline Secretary of the U.S. Senate where our quarterly federal and political activity, as well as features like  It candidates and ballot issues. All these activities are subject to is an additional avenue to do so anonymously. We maintain a nolobbying reports can be obtained via a search of  Marathon Happened Here  and  Glad You Asked.  In the oversight of our Board of Directors, its Sustainability and retaliation policy and never permit adverse action against Petroleum,  as well as expenses relating to federal lobbying addition, we have local Business Integrity Partners Public Policy Committee, and senior management. individuals making a submission in good faith. activity. who serve as ethical role models by providing Engagement Principles Those contacting the Integrity Helpline with a report of misconduct resources, facilitating the reporting of misconduct,   State lobbying disclosure, including a map showing the can expect: directing inquiries and supplementing employee states where we have registered as an employer or In our political engagement efforts, we focus on maintaining a training. principal of lobbyists, links to each state s lobbying reporting   To be given the opportunity to remain anonymous. strong business presence across the regions in which we site and an approximate total of state-reported lobbying operate and continuing to meet the energy needs of consumers MPC highlights the significance of compliance and   The matter to be assigned an investigator. expenditures. with competitive prices while protecting the value of our ethics during Corporate Compliance and Ethics   To be provided an access code for checking case status and Week. This week provides an opportunity for shareholders  investments. As such, we support people and   Employee political action committee reports showing federal updates and for communicating with our Business Integrity and leaders and employees to reflect on the importance policies that promote energy security; encourage free market and state-level contributions. Compliance representatives and investigators. principles, including technology neutrality; provide a balanced, of integrity in the workplace and its lasting effect on   Corporate political contribution reports showing science-based approach to issues; and support our Core Value   The matter to be investigated in a manner and to the extent our company culture. In 2024, over 1,900 contributions made from company treasury funds. of Safety and Environmental Stewardship and our commitment to appropriate based on the nature of the allegation. employees participated in a poll, providing valuable sustainability.   A report of trade associations with dues of  50,000 or feedback on our Compliance and Ethics program.   The report to be handled promptly, discreetly and professionally greater and that may engage in lobbying activities, the Because MPC is an integrated company that processes, refines, with the identity of the reporter protected.   99% said MPC clearly communicates its range of dues paid to each organization, as well as amounts markets and transports natural gas, petroleum and petroleum expectations of ethical behavior. attributable to federal lobbying or state and grassroots   To be contacted when the investigation is complete. products, and is one of the largest producers and marketers of lobbying and advertising. Our goal is to resolve all matters within 90 days. When warranted,   99% understand how the Code of Business renewable diesel in the U.S., we engage on those issues that touch the company and our stakeholders. MPC has interests in   A report of contributions to social welfare organizations for investigations may result in a change in policy or procedure, a Conduct applies to them in the roles they many topics, including those that affect statutory and regulatory lobbying and/or advocacy purposes, beginning with 2022 determination that an allegation could not be substantiated, or perform. compliance for business, environment, safety and security, as contributions. disciplinary action. Disciplinary levels range from coaching and   95% feel it is safe to speak up at MPC. well as those issues that impact employees, communities and counseling to more formal written warnings, suspension or even   For more information, please visit the Political Engagement page the overall evolution of our industry. termination. In determining the appropriate response, we strive to   89% feel confident something would be done of our website. balance consistent application with the weighing of specific facts about unethical behavior when reported. Trade Associations and circumstances. Misconduct also may result in a lower performance rating and adversely impact an employee s merit Taking part in trade associations is an important part of our role increase and bonus opportunity. as an active member of our industry and business communities. Allegation statistics are reported to the Audit Committee of the Through trade associations, we engage in the development of Board of Directors twice per year. In responding to any allegation of industry standards and practices and share advances in science, a violation of our Code of Business Conduct or the Code of Ethics engineering, safety, stakeholder engagement, training, for Senior Financial Officers, our chief compliance officer has direct certifications, research and more. access to the Board s independent Lead Director, president and When engaging on issues, including but not limited to climate, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, vice president of Audit we encourage our trade associations to take positions that are and the chair of the Board s Audit Committee. consistent with our engagement principles, including our commitment to sustainability. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 45 Cybersecurity and Privacy We have processes in place designed to protect our Cybersecurity Risks Our cybersecurity leadership and operational teams monitor Privacy information systems, data, assets, infrastructure, and computing We utilize layers of defensive measures designed to facilitate cybersecurity threat intelligence and applicable cybersecurity environments from cybersecurity threats and risks while Protecting all personal data is a priority. We are committed to resilience, minimize attack surfaces, and provide flexibility and regulatory requirements in a variety of ways, including by ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and availability. These complying with applicable privacy laws, as well as privacy regulations scalability in our proficiency to address cybersecurity risks and communicating with federal agencies, trade associations, service enterprisewide processes are based on policies, practices, and and safeguards that have been applied to our operations. We adhere threats. Security limits are placed on physical and network providers and other third-party resources. Our management team, standards that guide the identification, assessment, and to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which provides access to our information technology (IT) and operational through consultation with our CDO, CISO and the Audit Committee management of cybersecurity risks. requirements that protect payment card account data of our technology (OT) systems and network environments, including of our Board, uses the information gathered from these sources to customers. A third-party assessor is annually engaged to assess limiting remote network access. inform long-term cybersecurity investments and strategies that Threat Awareness and Prevention Training compliance. seek to identify, protect, detect, respond to and recover from Internal IT and OT controls are designed to detect cybersecurity Threat awareness and prevention training begins when an cybersecurity incidents. Incident Preparedness and Response threats by collecting and analyzing data in our centralized employee is hired and continues throughout their tenure cybersecurity operations center (CSOC). Our personnel are Our Computer Security Policy governs cybersecurity efforts and through training and communications delivered across multiple Our cybersecurity resiliency is evaluated using several methods, such trained to report suspicious incidents and cybersecurity threats supports compliance with legal requirements. The policy is channels, including weekly newsletters, digital signage, events as penetration testing; tabletop exercises with varying scenarios and to our IT Service Desk, where they are screened and then implemented through a governance process that includes celebrating Cybersecurity Awareness Month and role-based participants, including operations teams and executive leadership; escalated to our CSOC for appropriate action. standards, procedures, risk management, defense strategy and training. business continuity drills to ensure the safe operation of critical assets; compliance reviews. We engage with external resources to contribute to and provide and analysis of the corporate cybersecurity incident response plan. Our employees and contractors are provided annual computerindependent evaluation of our cybersecurity practices, including Our cybersecurity policies apply to personnel and third parties that based cybersecurity awareness training covering several key an annual assessment of our cybersecurity program performed own, manage, administer, support, develop or work on company cybersecurity principles, such as identity protection, incident by a third party against the National Institute of Standards and information systems and to all our computing environments, reporting, safe internet usage and mobile device security. Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. whether connected to or segregated from our corporate network. We employ a simulated email phishing program to aid in the All such personnel have access to our cybersecurity policies. We We manage third-party service provider cybersecurity risks protection of our systems and networks against email-based emphasize policy awareness through training and supervisor through contract management, evaluation of applicable security cybersecurity threats. Account users routinely receive engagement and implement policy compliance through a control assessments and third-party risk assessment processes. simulated phishing emails throughout the year to assess their structured escalation program as needed. ability to identify and report suspicious emails. An account user Governance and Compliance Our Code of Business Conduct further addresses protection of who inappropriately interacts with any such email is provided company assets, information systems, social media, business immediate feedback. Repeated failures result in additional We apply an enterprise risk management (ERM) methodology records retention and confidential information. training and are escalated to the account user s supervisor who established and led by our executive leadership team to identify, may then take appropriate action. assess and manage enterprise-level risks. Our cybersecurity risk program directly integrates and is intended to align with our governing ERM program. Our full Board of Directors oversees enterprise-level risks and has delegated to the Audit Committee of our Board oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats, informed by the ERM program. 99% of our employees completed Our Chief Digital Officer (CDO) and Chief Information Security cybersecurity awareness training Officer (CISO) are standing members of the ERM Committee, comprised of members of senior management. As part of the committee, these individuals report on and evaluate cybersecurity threats and risk management efforts, as 100% of account users received communicated to them by way of their direct reports and the simulated phishing emails larger cybersecurity team. The CDO and CISO provide cybersecurity briefings to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee as needed, with a minimum of two briefings per year. The Audit Committee further reviews and provides input on our cybersecurity and information security strategy. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 46 Appendix About This Report 47 Performance Data 47 2024 EEO-1 Report 57 Glossary 57 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 47 PERFORMANCE DATA ABOUT THIS REPORT MPC and MPLX s 2024 Sustainability Report reflects our longCDP Reporting standing commitment to transparency and accountability around Company Performance We participated in the 2024 CDP Climate Change and Water sustainability-related dimensions of our business. We have publicly Security reports. reported on these matters since 2011, and this report communicates our sustainability strategy and performance in   Click here for our most recent Climate Change and Water Security reference to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) response in accordance with the CDP reporting schedule. Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 metrics and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, as well as ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE(1) other recognized reporting frameworks. Scope of Report Sales and Other Operating Revenue   millions 201-1-a-i 69,779 119,983 177,453 148,379 138,864   Please visit the following websites for additional information on our Income from Operations   millions -12,247 4,300 21,469 14,514 6,796 The information and data in this report covers all MPC entities, sustainability priorities. Net Income Attributable to MPC   millions 201-1-a-iii -9,826 9,738 14,516 9,681 3,445 including MPLX LP, for the calendar year 2024, unless otherwise Capital Expenditures and Investments   millions 2,754 1,815 2,788 2,554 3,076 MPC   marathonpetroleum.com/sustainability indicated. Environmental Expenditures(2)(3)   millions 630 991 1,226 1,476 1,989 MPLX   mplx.com/sustainability Data Quality OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE(4) Reporting Frameworks and MPC Manufacturing Inputs million boe 1,627 1,684 1,741 1,769 1,846 The development of sustainability reporting requires the use of Refining Manufacturing Inputs million boe EM-RM-000.A 940 1,012 1,068 1,054 1,066 Disclosures estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the MPLX Gas Plant Manufacturing Inputs million boe 687 670 673 714 780 reported figures at the date of publication during the reporting Crude Oil Refining Capacity thousand bpcd EM-RM-000.B 2,874 2,887 2,898 2,950 2,963 SASB period. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout the Natural Gas Gathering Volumes million cubic feet per EM-MD-000.A 5,331 5,131 5,684 6,257 6,579 day performance data table may not add up to the totals provided, MPLX Crude and Refined Products Transported thousand bpd 4,712 5,453 5,660 5,812 5,782 This report is informed by the oil and gas industry metrics from the and percentages may not precisely reflect the rounded numbers. MPLX Crude Oil Transported thousand bpd EM-MD-000.A 2,998 3,380 3,549 3,772 3,785 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) standards. Prior-year data may have been updated to reflect better data MPLX Refined Products Transported thousand bpd EM-MD-000.A 1,714 2,073 2,111 2,040 1,997 availability, consistency, etc. Data included has been reviewed by GRI Total addressable market for 2024   billions EM-RM-410a.2 3.7 8.4 10.2 9.4 6.6 MPC s Audit Assurance and Advisory Services organization. In addition, we engaged an independent third party, LRQA, to Total market share(5) % EM-RM-410a.2 2.3 5.3 4.5 5.5 4.8 This report has been prepared with reference to the Global provide independent assurance of our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sector Standard for Oil and Gas. Scope 3 Category 11 GHG emissions and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity data. IPIECA   Click here to view the external assurance statement from LRQA This report is consistent with International Petroleum Industry relating to our GHG data. Environmental Conservation Association (Ipieca) Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (2020) and includes core reporting elements for each presented indicator. TCFD We annually publish a separate risk assessment report that follows guidelines set forth by the Financial Stability Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).   Click here for our latest Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios report. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 48 Environmental Performance Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS(4)(6) ENERGY CONSUMPTION (CONTINUED)(4)(6) Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG Emissions million tonnes CO e CCE-4 C1 40.2 39.9 40.4 39.8 40.9 Energy Intensity gj/boe 302-3-a CCE-6 A2 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 2 Scope 1 and 2 GHG Intensity (excludes GHG Refining Energy Intensity gj/boe CCE-6 A2 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 tonnes CO₂e/mboe input 305-4-a CCE-4 C4 23.7 22.9 22.4 21.7 21.4 associated with exported power from cogen) MPLX Natural Gas and NGL Services Energy gj/boe CCE-6 A2 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Intensity Reduction Since Intensity % 305-5-a 21 23 25 27 28 2014 Energy Consumption Purchased/Produced by million gj 302-1-b CCE-6 C2 6.1 5.4 6.1 7.1 7.3 Total Scope 1 GHG Emissions(7)(8) million tonnes CO₂e 305-1-a CCE-4 C1 32.2 33.0 33.7 33.0 34.6 Renewable Sources Total Scope 1 CO Emissions million tonnes CO₂ CCE-4 C1 31.3 32.2 33.1 32.4 33.9 Energy Consumption Purchased/Produced by 2 million gj 302-1-c CCE-6 C2 0 58 55 55 61 Combined Heat and Power Total Scope 1 CH Emissions thousand tonnes CH₄ CCE-4 C1 32.7 23.5 22.8 21.6 23.5 4 Energy Consumption Purchased/Produced by Total Scope 1 N O Emissions thousand tonnes N₂O CCE-4 C1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 million gj 302-1-c CCE-6 C2 0.0 9.1 9.5 10.8 12.2 2 Combined Cycle Gas Turbine Total Scope 1 SF and Tracer Emissions tonnes SF₆ and tracer CCE-4 C1 0 9 0 0 0 6 Avoided Energy Consumption from Efficiency million gi 302-4-a 13 16 17 19 12 Refining Scope 1 GHG Emissions million tonnes CO₂e EM-RM-110a.1 CCE-4 C3 26.7 27.5 28.3 27.6 28.3 Efforts Refining Scope 1 GHG Covered by EmissionsAIR EMISSIONS (4)(6) % EM-RM-110a.1 25 23 23 26 26 limiting Regulation(9) Total Criteria Pollutant Emissions thousand tonnes 43.9 43.7 43.1 42.2 41.5 MPLX Scope 1 GHG Emissions(10) million tonnes CO₂e EM-MD-110a.1 CCE-4 C3 5.4 5.5 5.4 5.4 6.3 Total SOx Emissions thousand tonnes 305-7-a-ii ENV-5 C1 2.5 2.8 2.7 2.6 2.6 MPLX Scope 1 GHG Emissions from Methane % EM-MD-110a.1 13 8 8 8 8 Total NOx Emissions thousand tonnes 305-7-a-i ENV-5 C1 14.8 15.2 15.4 14.8 14.7 (CO e basis) 2 Total CO Emissions thousand tonnes 305-7-a-vii ENV-5 A1 9.7 9.9 9.5 9.4 9.2 MPLX Scope 1 GHG Covered by Emissions% EM-MD-110a.1   2   1  1  1  1 limiting Regulation Total VOC Emissions thousand tonnes 305-7-a-iv ENV-5 C1 14.1 13.1 12.6 12.7 12.3 MPLX Natural Gas and NGL Services Scope 1 Total PM₂.₅ Emissions thousand tonnes 305-7-a-vi ENV-5 A1 2.9 2.7 2.9 2.7 2.8 % 0.029 0.020 0.018 0.016 0.015 Methane Emissions Intensity Total Criteria Pollutant Emissions Intensity tonnes/million boe 27.0 26.0 24.8 23.8 22.5 Total Scope 2 GHG Emissions(11) million tonnes CO₂e 305-2-a CCE-4 C2 8.0 6.9 6.7 6.8 6.3 Refining Criteria Pollutant Emissions thousand tonnes ENV-5 A3 28.8 29.9 30.4 29.5 29.1 Refining Scope 2 GHG Emissions million tonnes CO₂e CCE-4 C3 3.8 3.5 3.4 3.4 3.1 Refining SOx Emissions thousand tonnes EM-RM-120a.1 ENV-5 A3 2.4 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.5 MPLX Scope 2 GHG Emissions(10) million tonnes CO₂e CCE-4 C3 3.8 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.2 Refining NOx Emissions thousand tonnes EM-RM-120a.1 ENV-5 A3 10.0 10.6 10.8 10.3 10.2 Scope 3 Category 11: Use of Sold Products million tonnes CO₂e 305-3-a CCE-4 A2 352 379 404 400 405 Refining CO Emissions thousand tonnes ENV-5 A3 7.0 7.3 7.3 7.0 7.0 Refinery Yield Method Refining VOC Emissions thousand tonnes EM-RM-120a.1 ENV-5 A3 6.9 6.9 7.2 7.4 6.9 ENERGY CONSUMPTION(4)(6) Refining PM Emissions thousand tonnes EM-RM-120a.1 ENV-5 A3 2.5 2.3 2.5 2.3 2.4 Total Energy Consumption billion gj 302-1-a CCE-6 C1 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.6 10 Refining H₂S Emissions(12) thousand tonnes EM-RM-120a.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Refining Energy Consumption billion gj 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Refining Criteria Pollutant Emissions from Flaring thousand tonnes 2.1 2.9 3.2 2.5 2.8 MPLX Natural Gas and NGL Services Energy billion gj 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Consumption Refining Criteria Pollutant Emissions Intensity tonnes/million boe ENV-5 A3 30.6 29.5 28.5 28.0 27.3 Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions(12) thousand tonnes 305-7-a-v 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.1 1.0 Number of Refineries in or Near Areas of Dense count EM-RM-120a.2 12 12 12 12 12 Population Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 49 Environmental Performance Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 AIR EMISSIONS (CONTINUED)(4)(6) WATER (CONTINUED)(4)(6) MPLX Criteria Pollutant Emissions(10) thousand tonnes ENV-5 A3 15.1 13.9 12.7 12.6 12.4 Refining Freshwater Consumed in High Baseline Water Stress Areas as Percentage of Total % EM-RM-140a.1 24 25 18 17 26 MPLX SOx Emissions thousand tonnes EM-MD-120a.1 ENV-5 A3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Freshwater Consumed MPLX NOx Emissions thousand tonnes EM-MD-120a.1 ENV-5 A3 4.8 4.6 4.6 4.5 4.4 Refining Total Water Consumption megaliters 303-5-a 63,540 62,811 66,590 63,334 70,226 MPLX CO Emissions thousand tonnes ENV-5 A3 2.7 2.6 2.3 2.4 2.2 Total Water Withdrawal in Stressed Areas megaliters 303-3-b ENV-1 C4 37,135 34,576 36,567 40,193 42,534 MPLX VOC Emissions thousand tonnes EM-MD-120a.1 ENV-5 A3 7.1 6.2 5.4 5.2 5.3 Surface Water Withdrawal in Stressed Areas megaliters 303-3-b-i 0 0 1 0 0 MPLX PM Emissions thousand tonnes EM-MD-120a.1 ENV-5 A3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 10 Groundwater Withdrawal in Stressed Areas megaliters 303-3-b-ii 13,931 15,989 17,426 16,394 16,641 WATER(4)(6) Third-Party Withdrawal in Stressed Areas megaliters 303-3-b-v 23,203 18,587 19,122 23,752 25,871 Total Water Withdrawal megaliters 303-3-a 145,269 140,181 144,400 143,945 149,259 Total Freshwater Withdrawal in Stressed Areas megaliters 32,157 30,975 27,858 32,622 36,458 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-3-c-i ENV-1 C1 139,036 135,057 133,736 134,227 140,828 Total Freshwater Recycled in Stressed Areas megaliters 15,173 16,404 16,895 17,560 17,346 Other Water ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-3-c-ii ENV-1 A4 6,234 5,124 10,664 9,718 8,432 Total Freshwater Recycled in Stressed Areas % 47 53 61 54 48 Surface Water Withdrawal megaliters 303-3-a-i 79,001 77,123 77,303 77,562 80,420 Total Freshwater Withdrawal Intensity megaliters/million boe ENV-1 A2 85 80 77 76 76 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-3-c-i 78,999 77,123 77,303 77,561 80,420 Total Water Consumption megaliters 303-5-a ENV-1 C2 64,784 63,178 67,269 64,196 70,916 Groundwater Withdrawal megaliters 303-3-a-ii 22,861 25,103 25,819 24,482 24,970 Total Water Consumption in Stressed Areas megaliters 303-5-b 18,947 18,184 18,983 17,278 22,100 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-3-c-i 17,883 21,502 18,502 18,218 19,869 Total Water Consumption Intensity megaliters/million boe 40 38 39 36 38 Seawater Withdrawal megaliters 303-3-a-iii 75 73 59 92 285 Total Water Discharge megaliters 303-4-a ENV-2 A5 82,478 78,702 79,294 80,415 80,498 Other Water ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-3-c-ii 75 73 59 92 285 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-i 79,825 76,670 76,686 77,997 78,009 Third-Party Withdrawal megaliters 303-3-a-v 43,331 37,532 40,467 40,951 42,781 Other Water ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-ii 2,652 2,033 2,608 2,418 2,489 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-3-c-i 42,153 36,432 37,931 38,447 40,539 Surface Water Discharge megaliters 303-4-a-i ENV-2 A6 49,453 48,710 46,871 45,742 47,510 Other Water ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-3-c-ii 1,178 1,101 2,536 2,503 2,243 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-i ENV-2 A5 49,404 48,710 46,867 45,742 47,510 Total Freshwater Recycled megaliters ENV-1 A5 26,055 27,766 30,648 30,026 30,332 Refining Freshwater Withdrawal megaliters EM-RM-140a.1 137,420 134,495 132,786 133,624 140,395 Other Water ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-ii 49 0 4 0 0 Refining Freshwater Recycled % EM-RM-140a.1 19 21 23 22 22 Groundwater Discharge (includes deepwell megaliters 303-4-a-ii ENV-2 A6 1,993 1,699 2,162 2,129 2,154 Refining Freshwater Withdrawal in High Baseline injection) Water Stress Areas as Percentage of Total % EM-RM-140a.1 23 23 21 24 26 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-i 2 3 0 0 0 Freshwater Withdrawal Other Water ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-ii 1,991 1,696 2,162 2,129 2,154 Seawater Discharge megaliters 303-4-a-iii ENV-2 A6 3,841 1,100 995 3,728 2,868 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-i 3,766 1,087 895 3,704 2,781 Other Water ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-ii 75 13 100 24 87 Third-Party Discharge megaliters 303-4-a-iv ENV-2 A5 27,191 27,193 29,265 28,815 27,966 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-i 26,653 26,870 28,923 28,551 27,719 Other Water ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-b-ii 538 323 342 265 247 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 50 Environmental Performance Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 WATER (CONTINUED)(4)(6) WASTE (CONTINUED)(4)(6)(13) Total Water Discharge in Stressed Areas megaliters 303-4-c ENV-2 A7 18,188 16,392 17,583 22,915 20,440 Total Waste Directed to Disposal thousand tonnes 306-5-a 184 228 214 202 194 Freshwater ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-c-i 18,188 16,392 17,562 22,850 20,411 Hazardous Waste Directed to Disposal thousand tonnes 306-5-a, 29 26 18 23 18 306-5-b Other Water ( 1,000 mg/L total dissolved solids) megaliters 303-4-c-ii 0 0 21 66 29 Hazardous Waste Incineration with Energy thousand tonnes 306-5-b-i 16 10 12 15 14 Seawater Discharge in Stressed Areas megaliters ENV-2 A7 3,757 1,087 895 3,704 2,781 Recovery Third-Party Discharge in Stressed Areas megaliters ENV-2 A7 14,431 15,303 16,676 19,101 17,396 Hazardous Waste Incineration without Energy thousand tonnes 306-5-b-ii 8 12 5 5 2 Recovery Incidents of Noncompliance with Discharge Limits count 303-4-d-iii 92 59 25 30 33 Hazardous Waste Landfilling thousand tonnes 306-5-b-ii 5 4 2 4 2 Incidents of Noncompliance with Water Quality Permits, Standards and Regulations with count EM-RM-140a.2 13 12 7 2 4 Hazardous Waste Other Disposal thousand tonnes 306-5-b-iv 0 0 0 0 0 Enforcement 306-5-a, Nonhazardous Waste Directed to Disposal thousand tonnes 155 202 195 179 176 WASTE(4)(6)(13) 306-5-c Nonhazardous Waste Incineration with Energy Total Waste Generated thousand tonnes 306-3-a 253 318 254 260 254 thousand tonnes 306-5-c-i 20 13 6 0 0 Recovery Hazardous Waste Generated thousand tonnes 306-3-a 42 36 37 45 34 Nonhazardous Waste Incineration without thousand tonnes 306-5-c-ii 0 1 1 0 0 Nonhazardous Waste Generated thousand tonnes 306-3-a 211 282 217 214 220 Energy Recovery 306-4-a, 306-4Nonhazardous Waste Landfilling thousand tonnes 306-5-b-iii 135 188 188 179 176 Total Waste Diverted from Disposal thousand tonnes 69 90 40 57 60 b Nonhazardous Waste Other Disposal thousand tonnes 306-5-c-iv 0 0 0 0 0 Hazardous Waste Diverted from Disposal thousand tonnes 306-4-a 13 10 19 22 16 Refining Hazardous Waste Generated thousand tonnes EM-RM-150a.1 41 34 32 32 30 Hazardous Waste Preparation for Reuse thousand tonnes 306-4-b-i 0 0 5 12 3 Refining Hazardous Waste Recycled % EM-RM-150a.1 31 25 43 33 46 Hazardous Waste Recycling thousand tonnes 306-4-b-ii 13 10 14 10 13 Underground Storage Tanks (USTs)(14) count EM-RM-150a.2 15,753 298 298 298 301 Hazardous Waste Other Recovery thousand tonnes 306-4-b-iii 0 0 0 0 0 UST Releases Requiring Cleanup count EM-RM-150a.2 80 0 0 0 85 306-4-c, Nonhazardous Waste Diverted from Disposal thousand tonnes 56 80 22 36 44 306-4-a UST Releases Requiring Cleanup in States with % EM-RM-150a.2 85 0 0 0 0 Nonhazardous Waste Preparation for Reuse thousand tonnes 306-4-c-i 0 0 0 4 1 UST Financial Assurance Funds Nonhazardous Waste Recycling thousand tonnes 306-4-c-ii 56 80 21 32 44 Nonhazardous Waste Other Recovery thousand tonnes 306-4-c-ii 0 0 0 0 0 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 51 Environmental Performance Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 SPILLS DESIGNATED ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS (DEIs)(17) Hazardous Material Spilled  1 bbl volume bbls 306-3 681 54,108 6,132 29,124 3,724 Number of Tier 2, 3 and 4 DEIs count 151 166 187 179 185 Hazardous Material Spills  1 bbl count count 306-3 3 8 9 8 6 Tier 2 DEIs count 101 111 135 110 138 Total Oil Spilled  1 bbl volume bbls ENV-6 C2 1,003 5,493 6,668 7,275 4,451 Tier 3 and 4 DEIs count 50 55 52 69 47 Total Oil Spills  1 bbl count count ENV-6 C2 61 47 70 72 88 ECOLOGICAL IMPACTS Oil Spilled to Land  1 bbl volume bbls ENV-6 A3 515 4,740 5,760 5,745 4,385 Wildlife Habitat Council Certified Habitats Owned count 22 20 16 16 14 and Maintained Oil Spills to Land  1 bbl count count ENV-6 A3 59 46 66 70 83 Acres of Wildlife Habitat Council Certified Oil Spilled to Water  1 bbl volume bbls ENV-6 A3 488 753 908 1,530 66 acres 1,313 1,183 817 832 826 Habitats Owned and Maintained Oil Spills to Water  1 bbl count count ENV-6 A3 2 1 4 2 5 Land Owned, Leased, and/or Operated within Areas of Protected Conservation Status or Endangered % EM-MD-160a.2 304-1 23 21 19 20 20 MPLX Hydrocarbons Spilled  1 bbl volume bbls EM-MD-160a.4 855 2,748 5,506 5,634 3,831 Species Habitat(18) MPLX Hydrocarbon Spills  1 bbl count count EM-MD-160a.4 34 26 47 39 45 Terrestrial Acreage Disturbed(19) acres EM-MD-160a.3 4,644 7,328 1,565 1,393 1,289 MPLX Hydrocarbons Spilled to Land  1 bbl volume bbls EM-MD-160a.4 293 1,995 4,606 4,104 3,822 Impacted Areas Restored(20) % EM-MD-160a.3 304-3 92 100 117 82 51 MPLX Hydrocarbons Spilled to Water  1 bbl bbls EM-MD-160a.4 488 753 901 1,530 10 volume MPLX Hydrocarbons Spilled in Arctic  1 bbl volume bbls EM-MD-160a.4 0 0 0 0 0 MPLX Hydrocarbons Spilled in Unusually Sensitive bbls EM-MD-160a.4 0 0 3,500 0 329 Areas  1 bbl volume(15) MPLX Hydrocarbons Spilled Recovered  1 bbl bbls EM-MD-160a.4 781 2,528 4,558 4,646 3,291 volume Reportable Pipeline Incidents count EM-MD-540a.1 12 14 11 22 19 Reportable Pipeline Incidents Significant % EM-MD-540a.1 33.0 50.0 55.0 50.0 26.0 Rail Transportation Accident Releases count EM-MD-540a.3 0 0 0 0 0 Rail Transportation Non-Accident Releases count EM-MD-540a.3 6 3 6 8 5 Natural Gas Pipelines Inspected(16) % EM-MD-540a.2 11.0 12.0 9.9 0.0 8.6 Hazardous Liquid Pipelines Inspected(16) % EM-MD-540a.2 23.7 34.0 32.1 57.2 34.7 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 52 Social Performance Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION STATISTICS (EEO-1 DATA)(21) U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION STATISTICS (EEO-1 DATA) (CONTINUED)(21) TOTAL EMPLOYEES PROFESSIONALS Total Minority Representation % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 22.6 23.0 23.8 24.2 25.0 Total Minority Representation % 405-1 SOC-05 C2 20.1 20.7 22.1 22.3 22.9 Hispanic or Latino % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 12.5 12.5 13.0 13.2 13.7 Hispanic or Latino % 405-1 SOC-05 C2 10.5 10.7 11.6 11.6 12.2 Black or African American % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 4.8 4.9 5.0 5.1 5.2 Black or African American % 405-1 SOC-05 C2 2.6 2.5 3.1 3.2 3.1 Asian % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 2.8 2.9 3.0 3.1 3.1 Asian % 405-1 SOC-05 C2 5.3 5.6 5.5 5.4 5.5 American Indian or Alaskan Native % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.9 1.0 American Indian or Alaskan Native % 405-1 SOC-05 C2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.4 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander % 405-1 SOC-05 C2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Two or More Races % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.6 Two or More Races % 405-1 SOC-05 C2 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.6 1.6 White % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 77.4 77.0 76.2 75.8 75.0 White % 405-1 SOC-05 C2 79.9 79.3 77.9 77.7 77.1 Women % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 18.1 18.1 18.0 18.0 17.9 Women % 405-1 SOC-05 C2 30.6 30.6 30.6 30.5 30.6 EXECUTIVE/SENIOR OFFICIALS AND MANAGERS WORKFORCE Total Minority Representation % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 3.8 4.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL WORKFORCE ALL EMPLOYEES count 2-7 18,639 17,670 17,887 18,191 18,250 Hispanic or Latino % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 3.8 4.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total Workforce Women % 2-7, 405-1 SOC-5 C2 18 18 18 18 18 Black or African American % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total Workforce Racial/Ethnic Minority Groups % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 23 23 24 24 25 Asian % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Workforce Full-Time Employment % 99 99 99 99 99 American Indian or Alaskan Native % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Workforce Part-Time and Seasonal Employment count     171 171 183 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Employees by Age Group Baby Boomers % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 16 14 12 10 8 Two or More Races % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Employees by Age Group Generation X % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 43 43 42 41 40 White % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 96.2 96.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Employees by Age Group Millennials % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 40 41 42 44 45 Women % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 23.1 24.0 33.3 35.3 37.5 Employees by Age Group Generation Z % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 1 2 4 5 7 FIRST/MID-LEVEL OFFICIALS AND MANAGERS Ratio of Permanent to Temporary Employees ratio 0 0 103:1 102:1 98:1 Total Minority Representation % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 14.5 15.8 16.3 16.7 17.7 Total Employee Turnover Rate %     10.0 6.9 6.7 Hispanic or Latino % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 7.4 7.9 8.2 8.3 8.9 Voluntary Employee Turnover Rate %     8.5 5.3 5.0 Black or African American % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 3.2 3.5 3.6 3.7 3.6 Average Years Employed by the Company for Men count 0 0 10 11 11 Asian % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 1.9 2.2 2.5 2.8 2.9 Average Years Employed by the Company for count 0 0 10 10 11 Women American Indian or Alaskan Native % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 Open Positions Filled by Internal Candidates %     39.3 43.7 42.0 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.3 Minimum Wage Lowest Entry Level Wage       16.34 18.62 19.27 Two or More Races % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 1.2 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.4 Unionized Employees All Employees count 2-30-a 4,081 3,824 3,787 3,753 3,731 White % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 85.5 84.2 83.7 83.3 82.3 Employees with Disability (self-reported) %     1 1 3 Women % 405-1 SOC-5 C2 14.2 16.0 14.9 15.8 15.3 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 53 Social Performance Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 WORKFORCE (CONTINUED) WORKFORCE (CONTINUED) BOARD OF DIRECTORS(22) TOTAL HIRES ALL EMPLOYEES count 401-1 SOC-5 C3 1,590 1,366 2,306 2,138 1,830 Board of Directors Women % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 17 17 18 18 33 Total Hires Women % 401-1 0 27 23 22 22 21 Board of Directors Racial/Ethnic Minority Groups % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 25 33 27 27 27 Total Hires Racial/Ethnic Minority Groups % 401-1 0 25 32 31 32 32 Board of Directors by Age Group Baby Boomers % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 83 83 82 82 73 Total Hires by Age Group Baby Boomer % 401-1 SOC-5C3 3 5 4 3 2 Board of Directors by Age Group Generation X % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 17 17 18 18 27 Total Hires by Age Group Generation X % 401-1 SOC-5C3 17 22 20 16 16 OFFICERS Total Hires by Age Group Millennials % 401-1 SOC-5C3 41 42 48 43 39 Officers Women % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 25 27 28 31 33 Total Hires by Age Group Generation Z % 401-1 SOC-5C3 39 31 28 39 44 Officers Racial/Ethnic Minority Groups % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 5 5 0 0   INTERN/CO-OP HIRES TOTAL count 401-1 SOC-5 C3 545 296 366 493 482 Officers by Age Group Baby Boomers % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 55 41 39 31 27 Intern/Co-op Hires Women % 401-1 SOC-5 C3 35 36 36 33 30 Officers by Age Group Generation X % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 40 50 56 63 60 Intern/Co-op Hires Racial/Ethnic Minority Groups % 401-1 SOC-5 C3 24 25 28 32 27 Officers by Age Group Millennials % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 5 9 6 6 13 Interns by Age Group Millennials % 401-1 SOC-5 C3 10 7 7 5 4 ALL SENIOR MANAGEMENT count 405-1 SOC-5 C3 127 148 168 183 197 Interns by Age Group Generation Z % 401-1 SOC-5 C3 90 93 93 95 95 Senior Management Women % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 21 23 24 25 26 INTERN TO EMPLOYEE CONVERSIONS TOTAL count 401-1 SOC-7 A2 139 51 93 102 111 Intern to Employee Conversions Women % 401-1 SOC-7 A2 47 35 35 33 37 Senior Management Racial/Ethnic Minority Groups % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 11 12 11 13 14 Intern to Employee Conversions Racial/Ethnic Minority % 401-1 SOC-7 A2 15 24 11 18 17 Senior Management by Age Group Baby Boomers % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 22 15 14 9 7 Groups Senior Management by Age Group Generation X % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 75 77 77 80 78 Intern to Employee Conversions by Age Group Baby % 401-1 SOC-7 A2 0 0 0 0   Boomer Senior Management by Age Group Millennials % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 3 8 9 11 15 Intern to Employee Conversions by Age Group % 401-1 SOC-7 A2 0 0 0 0   ALL SUPERVISORS count 405-1 SOC-5 C3 2,449 2,254 2,326 2,329 2,400 Generation X Supervisors Women % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 17 17 16 17 17 Intern to Employee Conversions by Age Group % 401-1 SOC-7 A2 62 18 11 15 7 Millennials Supervisors Racial/Ethnic Minority Groups % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 15 16 17 17 18 Intern to Employee Conversions by Age Group Supervisors by Age Group Baby Boomers % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 15 13 10 8 6 % 401-1 SOC-7 A2 38 82 89 85 93 Generation Z Supervisors by Age Group Generation X % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 56 56 55 54 51 Supervisors by Age Group Millennials % 405-1 SOC-5 C3 29 31 35 38 43 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 54 Social Performance Safety Performance Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 TRAINING PERSONAL SAFETY PERFORMANCE(25) Total Training Hours All Employees million hours 404-1 0.00 0.00 1.25 1.26 1.37 TOTAL COUNT OF SAFETY INCIDENTS Average Training Hours per Employee hours 404-1 0.0 0.0 64.0 69.5 69.2 Refining count 54 66 72 84 66 Career Development Training Hours All Employee count 20 29 37 35 29 hours 404-1 0 0 0 67,937 95,527 Employees Contractor count 34 37 35 49 37 Employees Participating in Career Development Training count 4,357 11,312 MPLX count 113 101 111 92 85 Training and Development Spend All Employees   million 0.0 0.0 0.0 68.1 77.9 Employee count 80 91 94 81 71 Training and Development Spend Average per Contractor count 33 10 17 11 14   thousand 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.7 3.9 Employee FATALITIES(26) COMMUNITY INVESTMENT(4) Total Company Fatalities count SHS-3 C1 1 0 1 3 0 Community Investment Dollars(23)   million SOC-13 C2 13.0 21.0 23.2 22.8 23.7 Employee count SHS-3 C1 0 0 1 2 0 Nonprofits Supported count 4,647 4,573 4,856 5,056 5,062 Contractor count SHS-3 C1 1 0 0 1 0 Employee Donations to Nonprofits   million 4.6 4.1 4.2 4.5 4.6 per 200,000 hours Total Company Fatality Rate 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.002 0.000 0.003 0.008 0.000 Employee Volunteer Hours hours 44,433 57,522 62,407 69,430 57,647 worked Corporate Sponsorships, Local Giving, Company   million 10.1 9.0 9.0 8.0 8.7 Employee per 200,000 hours EM-RM-320a.1 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.000 0.000 0.005 0.010 0.000 Matching Gifts, Disaster Relief worked Focused, Long-Term Investments and Employee   million 2.9 11.4 11.4 15.1 15.1 Contractor per 200,000 hours EM-RM-320a.1 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.005 0.000 0.000 0.005 0.000 Volunteer Program worked Value of Employee Volunteer Hours During OSHA RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE(27)   thousand 0 119 60 330 321 Working Hours(24) per 200,000 hours Total Company 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.39 0.51 0.51 0.44 0.39 Community Investment Overhead   million 1.6 1.7 2.2 2.6 3.2 worked RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES per 200,000 hours Employee 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.45 0.60 0.69 0.56 0.49 worked Operations Where Indigenous Communities are count 14 21 21 21 23 Present per 200,000 hours Contractor 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.33 0.36 0.31 0.32 0.28 worked Number of Significant Disputes with Local and count 411-1 0 0 0 0 0 Indigenous Peoples per 200,000 hours Refining 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.22 0.34 0.31 0.35 0.28 worked Operations Where Involuntary Resettlement Took count 411-1 SOC-11 0 0 0 0 0 Place with Indigenous Communities per 200,000 hours Employee EM-RM-320a.1 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.18 0.30 0.38 0.34 0.29 worked SUPPLY CHAIN per 200,000 hours Contractor EM-RM-320a.1 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.27 0.39 0.26 0.36 0.27 Supply Chain Spend (excluding crude/feedstock worked   billion 15.0 7.0 9.0 8.1 9.0 purchases) per 200,000 hours MPLX 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.74 0.94 1.07 0.75 0.66 Diverse Supplier Spend (excluding crude/feedstock worked   million 277 575 708 795 705 purchases) per 200,000 hours Employee 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.98 1.25 1.33 1.12 0.98 worked per 200,000 hours Contractor 403-9 SHS-3 C1 0.46 0.29 0.50 0.22 0.25 worked Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 55 Safety Performance Governance Performance Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Unit of Measure SASB Map GRI Map Ipieca Map 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 PERSONAL SAFETY PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED)(25) GOVERNANCE(22) LOST TIME RATE(28) Board Composition Independent Directors % 2-9 GOV-1 A1 92 92 91 91 87 Total Company per 200,000 hrs worked SHS-3 C1 0.10 0.15 0.15 0.14 0.10 Board Composition Independent Directors count 2-9 GOV-1 A1 11 11 10 10 13 Employee per 200,000 hrs worked SHS-3 C1 0.15 0.19 0.24 0.21 0.16 Board Composition Board Diversity (women   % 405-1, 2-9 GOV-1 A1 33 42 36 36 47 ethnic minorities) Contractor per 200,000 hrs worked SHS-3 C1 0.04 0.08 0.05 0.05 0.04 Board Composition Women count 405-1, 2-9 GOV-1 A1 2 2 2 2 5 Refining per 200,000 hrs worked SHS-3 C1 0.04 0.08 0.07 0.09 0.06 Board Composition Ethnic Minorities count 405-1, 2-9 GOV-1 A1 3 4 3 3 4 Employee per 200,000 hrs worked SHS-3 C1 0.05 0.08 0.15 0.15 0.10 Board Experience Significant Refreshment Since % GOV-1 A1 50 50 55 55 67 Contractor per 200,000 hrs worked SHS-3 C1 0.03 0.07 0.02 0.05 0.04 2017 MPLX per 200,000 hrs worked SHS-3 C1 0.22 0.33 0.35 0.26 0.19 Total Amount of   Losses from Legal Proceedings   million EM-MD-520a.1 1.29 8.47 0.06 3.30 0.84 Employee per 200,000 hrs worked SHS-3 C1 0.34 0.43 0.45 0.40 0.33 Associated with Federal Pipeline and Storage Regulations Contractor per 200,000 hrs worked SHS-3 C1 0.07 0.12 0.12 0.06 0.02 Total Amount of   Losses from Legal Proceedings   million EM-RM-520a.1 206-1 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL COUNT OF HEALTH ILLNESSES(29) Associated with Price Gouging, Price Fixing or Price Manipulation Total Company count 403-10 36 27 0 0 1 CYBERSECURITY PROCESS SAFETY PERFORMANCE(30) MPC Email Account Holders Receiving Phishing count 36,228 23,236 22,786 27,979 28,336 Total Company (3 x total Tier 1 count)   77 84 109 118 110 Simulations total Tier 2 count MPC Email Account Holders Receiving Phishing % 100 99 99 99 100 Refining (3 x total Tier 1 count)   49 67 91 106 83 Simulations total Tier 2 count MPLX (3 x total Tier 1 count)   28 17 18 12 27 total Tier 2 count PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS RATE TIER 1 Total Company (total Tier 1 count/total SHS-6 C1 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.08 0.09 work hrs) x 200,000 Refining (total Tier 1 count/total EM-RM-540a.1 SHS-6 C1 0.04 0.06 0.09 0.08 0.06 work hrs) x 200,000 MPLX (total Tier 1 count/total SHS-6 C1 0.19 0.24 0.25 0.05 0.38 work hrs) x 200,000 PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS RATE TIER 2 Total Company (total Tier 2 count/total SHS-6 C1 0.11 0.17 0.15 0.22 0.18 work hrs) x 200,000 Refining (total Tier 2 count/total EM-RM-540a.1 SHS-6 A1 0.08 0.16 0.14 0.20 0.16 work hrs) x 200,000 MPLX (total Tier 2 count/total SHS-6 A1 0.38 0.30 0.37 0.48 0.32 work hrs) x 200,000 Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 56 Footnotes (1) As reported in the MPC 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2024 data. (8) Inclusive of carbon dioxide (CO ), methane (CH ), nitrous oxide (N O) and (18) The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Protected Areas Database v.2.1 is the (25) To present comparable year-over-year data, the data presented for Count of 2 4 2 Previous years  data is as reported in the respective Annual Report on Form 10-K. sulfur hexafluoride (SF ). Hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) and perfluorocarbons (PFC) nation s official inventory of public open space and private protected areas and Safety Incidents does not include COVID-19 cases that MPC conservatively 6 emissions are considered to not be material to our operations and are therefore was used to determine areas of protected conservation status. The U.S. Fish and recorded as work-related. Including these cases, 2020 and 2021 Refining Count (2) Based on the American Petroleum Institute s definition of environmental excluded. Wildlife Service (FWS) Critical Habitat, U.S. FWS National Wildlife Refuge and U.S. of Employee Safety Incidents is 44 and 33, respectively. 2020 and 2021 MPLX expenditures. Endangered Species Habitat datasets were used to determine areas of Count of Employee Safety incidents is 92 and 114, respectively. There were no (9) The Martinez and Los Angeles facilities are currently subject to the California endangered species habitat. As MPC s and MPLX s operations are limited to the COVID-19 related cases in 2022, 2023, or 2024. (3) These amounts include spending charged against remediation reserves, Cap-and-Trade Program. The Anacortes facility is currently subject to the U.S., these two datasets are appropriate for the evaluation of this metric in place where permissible, but exclude noncash provisions recorded for environmental Washington Cap-and-Invest Program. of the references suggested in the standard. As of the end of 2024, 26,556 acres (26) To present comparable year-over-year data, the data presented for Fatalities remediation. out of 132,109 total acres owned, leased and/or operated were located within does not include COVID-19 cases that MPC conservatively recorded as work(10) MPLX emissions data includes emissions from all midstream facilities and, as areas of protected conservation status or endangered species habitat. related. Including these cases, 2020 Total Company Employee Fatalities is one, (4) Historic data revised as needed to reflect updated reporting methodology, such, a small amount of MPLX reported emissions are from MPC-owned and 2020 Total Company Employee Fatality Rate is 0.004. There were no workimproved data, etc. midstream facilities. (19) Includes land impacted during the reporting year. For years 2018-2021, related COVID-19 fatalities in 2021, 2022, 2023, or 2024. disturbed land was defined as requiring regulatory review and subsequent (5) No significant difference between total addressable market and market MPC (11) Location-based Scope 2 emissions that include indirect GHG emissions from permitting (1 acre or greater) OR identified within an otherwise environmentally (27) To present comparable year-over-year data, the data presented for OSHA serves. Nonrevenue generating initiatives to commercialize biofuels. consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam. sensitive area. Beginning in 2022, disturbed land now additionally includes land Recordable Incident Rate does not include COVID-19 cases that MPC disturbance and restoration that exceeds or is otherwise not governed by conservatively recorded as work related. Including these cases, 2020 and 2021 MPC has participated in precompetitive research projects around biofuels, (12) As reported in the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) Program. regulatory review and subsequent permitting. Disturbed land does not include Total Company Employee OSHA Recordable Incident Rate is 0.60 and 0.74, including: either (1) previously disturbed agricultural fields, (2) pipeline work on our current respectively. 2020 and 2021 Refining Employee OSHA Recordable Incident Rate (13) The legal or regulatory frameworks used to define hazardous waste and   Coordinating Research Council   a nonprofit organization that directs recycled hazardous waste is 40 CFR 260-261. (previously disturbed) right of way, or (3) right-of-way maintenance vegetation is 0.39 and 0.34, respectively. 2020 and 2021 MPLX Employee OSHA Recordable engineering and environmental studies on the interaction between clearing on previously disturbed land required by PHMSA to enable aerial Incident Rate is 1.13 and 1.57, respectively. There were no COVID-19 related cases automotive/other mobility equipment and petroleum products. (14) On May 14, 2021, MPC completed the sale of Speedway to 7-Eleven, Inc. As a pipeline inspections. in 2022, 2023, or 2024. result of this sale, UST data beginning in 2021 does not include Speedway.   U.S. DRIVE Net-Zero Carbon Fuels Technical Team   a voluntary government(20) In 2022, more acreage was restored than disturbed due to the restoration of (28) To present comparable year-over-year data, the data presented for Lost Time industry partnership focused on advanced automotive and related energy (15) Volume of spills in Unusually Sensitive Areas is inclusive of PHMSAland disturbance projects that had taken place in previous reporting years. Rate does not include COVID-19 cases that MPC conservatively recorded as work-related. Including these cases, 2020 and 2021 Total Company Lost Time infrastructure technology research and development. reportable spills only. (21) Excludes international employees. Definitions for EEO-1 filings are different Rate is 0.31 and 0.33, respectively. 2020 and 2021 Refining Employee Days Away (6) Environmental performance is generally reported for facilities of which MPC (16) MPC and MPLX conform to inspection frequency requirements contained in than internal MPC definitions (executives, etc.). Rate is 0.26 and 0.12, respectively. 2020 and 2021 MPLX Employee Days Away and MPLX have operational control. 49 CFR 192 and 195. Nonregulated pipelines are not included. For all years Rate is 0.49 and 0.74, respectively. There were no COVID-19 related cases in presented, 100% of regulated natural gas and hazardous pipeline inspections (22) Includes MPC s Board of Directors. For information about the individuals 2022, 2023, or 2024. (7) Scope 1 direct GHG emissions include those from Refining and MPLX and are were completed as required. serving on the MPLX Board of Directors, please visit the Corporate Governance generally calculated per the EPA s Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting section of the MPLX website. (29) Total Count of Health Illnesses include COVID-19 related health illnesses. Program, the World Resources Institute / World Business Council for Sustainable (17) DEIs include releases to the environment (air, land or water), environmental (23) 2020-2022 data includes Marathon Petroleum Foundation dollars. (30) Process Safety Events Score measures MPC s and MPLX s ability to identify, Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A corporate accounting and reporting permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. Tier 3 and 4 DEIs are the understand and control certain process hazards, taking into account Tier 1 and standard, revised edition, or the 2009 API Compendium of Greenhouse Gas most significant types of DEIs. DEI performance is only inclusive of assets/entities (24) Calculated using Independent Sector s 2024 Estimated National Value of Tier 2 events, with Tier 1 events multiplied by three to recognize their severity. Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry. Global Warming that MPC and MPLX owned in the reporting year. Volunteer Time. Potentials used are from Table A-1 to Subpart A of 40 CFR Part 98 as of February 2022. Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 57 2024 EEO-1 REPORT GLOSSARY   Click here to view our original 2024 EEO-1 consolidated report. AFPM: American Fuel   Petrochemical Manufacturers GHG: Greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane API: American Petroleum Institute gj: Gigajoule   a measurement unit of energy. One gigajoule is roughly equivalent to 1 million British thermal bbl: Barrel   42 U.S. gallons units. Biofuels: Fuels that are produced from a biomass, meaning plant, algae material or animal GRI: Global Reporting Initiative HISPANIC OR NOT HISPANIC OR LATINO LATINO waste. Since biomass feedstock material can be replenished readily, biofuels are considered to HES S: Health, Environment, Safety and Security Male Female be a source of renewable energy. HESS PQ: Health, Environment, Safety, Security and Product Quality Native American Two Native American Two boe: Barrel of oil equivalent   a unit of energy based on the energy released by burning one ILTA: International Liquid Terminals Association Male Female White Black or Asian Hawaiian Indian or or White Black or Asian Hawaiian Indian or or barrel of crude oil or 5.8 million British thermal units. JOB African or Pacific Alaskan More African or Pacific Alaskan More Overall IPIECA: International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association CATEGORIES American Islander Native Races American Islander Native Races Totals bpcd: Barrels per calendar day   the average of how much crude oil or other feedstock a ISO 9001: International Organization for Standardization s quality management system criteria refinery processes over a period of time, divided by the number of days in that period, typically Executive/ 365 days (a common rate measure for petroleum refineries). Learning Teams: Sessions in which the team and facilitator discuss a specific task or an unplanned event to Senior Officials 0 0 10 0 0 0 0 0 6 0 0 0 0 0 16 better understand the context of how the work is done. bpd: Barrels per day and Managers MPC: Marathon Petroleum Corporation Btu: British thermal unit MPL: Marathon Pipe Line LLC   a wholly owned subsidiary of MPLX that specializes in operating pipelines, First/Mid CERT: Corporate Emergency Response Team   a highly trained group of MPC professionals storage tanks and marine facilities. Officials and 206 53 2,038 89 63 7 14 34 344 16 22 1 1 7 2,895 across the company with nationally recognized response expertise. Managers MPLX: A diversified, large-cap master limited partnership formed by Marathon Petroleum Corporation that CO : Carbon dioxide 2 owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and logistics assets and provides fuel distribution CO e: Carbon dioxide equivalent   a common unit of measurement converting all greenhouse 2 services. gases to carbon dioxide. MPC calculates CO e emissions using the EPA factors identified in Professionals 459 247 3,159 120 207 4 11 65 1,311 57 114 2 11 29 5,796 2 OEMS: MPC s Operational Excellence Management System   a framework used to manage work and Table A-1 at 40 CFR Part 98. achieve health, environmental, safety, security, product quality and sustainability goals in an intentional and Collaborative Audits: In-depth audits focused on compliance, conformance, OEMS alignment continual manner. and process or program maturity. OSHA: The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration Technicians 108 18 602 38 22 2 9 12 112 22 5 0 2 3 955 DEI: Designated Environmental Incident   a metric adopted by MPC and MPLX to capture OSHA Recordable Incident: An injury or illness that results in any of the following: death, days away from several categories simultaneously. It includes releases to the environment (including to air, land work, restricted work or transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, loss of consciousness, or or water), permit exceedances and agency enforcement actions. MPC and MPLX rank DEIs in a significant injury or illness diagnosed by a physician or other licensed health care professional. terms of their severity, with Tier 4 being the most severe and Tier 1 being the least. Sales Workers 3 0 50 1 2 0 0 0 21 0 0 0 0 2 79 PSE: Process safety event   an unplanned or uncontrolled release of a material from a process. Tier 1 PSEs, Below are partial descriptions of the DEI Tiers: which we report in this publication, are the most serious PSEs. Below are detailed descriptions of the PSE Tier 4 Tiers:   Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 1,000 bbl Administrative Tier 1 25 108 91 7 6 1 1 2 376 30 12 2 3 8 672 Support   Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal   Loss of primary containment (LOPC) exceeding Tier 1 threshold quantity to 100 bbl   LOPC resulting in a fatality, lost-time injury, community evacuation or shelter in place   Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 100 times the   LOPC with fire or explosion damage    100,000 Craft Workers 251 1 1,203 49 25 9 32 19 13 0 0 0 1 0 1,603 reportable quantity Tier 3 Tier 2   Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 100 bbl   LOPC exceeding Tier 2 threshold quantity but less than 1,000 bbl Operatives 963 41 4,104 479 88 36 88 111 190 34 5 1 4 9 6,153   LOPC resulting in a recordable injury   Release of oil or other hazardous material to a regulated water body greater than or equal   LOPC with fire or explosion damage    2,500 to 10 bbl but less than 100 bbl RC14001 : A management system that combines Responsible Care with the globally recognized ISO 14001   Reportable release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to an established Laborers and environmental management system, established by the International Organization for Standardization. Helpers 28 2 82 10 0 1 2 1 13 0 0 0 0 0 139 reportable quantity but less than 100 times the reportable quantity Renewable Diesel: A fuel consisting of hydrocarbon molecules, produced through the hydrotreating of Tier 2 animal fats, vegetable oils and recycled grease feedstock.   Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land greater than or equal to 10 bbl but Safety-Sensitive Work: Work performed at facilities owned, leased, operated or controlled by MPC and Service Workers 1 3 2 0 0 0 0 0 9 1 0 0 0 0 16 less than 100 bbl MPLX that may affect personal and process safety including but not limited to work on process equipment, work within a process boundary and work that involves Life Critical activities or other hazardous activities.   Safety system failure or bypass SASB: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board   Release of oil or other hazardous material into a regulated water body greater than or equal to 1 bbl but less than 10 bbl Scf: Standard cubic feet   a volume of gas TOTAL 2,044 473 11,341 793 413 60 157 244 2,395 160 158 6 22 58 18,324   Release to air of a hazardous material greater than or equal to 80% of a reportable Scope 1 Emissions: All direct greenhouse gas emissions by a company. This includes fuel combustion, quantity but less than an established reportable quantity company vehicles and fugitive emissions. Tier 1 Scope 2 Emissions: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or PREVIOUS 1,951 448 11,355 758 401 62 145 240 2,430 164 156 5 19 57 18,191 steam. REPORT TOTAL   Release of oil or other hazardous material onto the land that is less than 10 bbl (if less than 1 bbl, release must also be reported) Scope 3 Emissions: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions that occur in a company s value chain that are not captured by Scope 2. ENERGY STAR : A program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recognizing energy efficiency. To achieve this status, applicants must perform in the top quartile for energy Self-audits: Audits conducted by local level internal subject matter experts and are focused on compliance efficiency and have no unresolved environmental compliance actions from state or federal and conformance. regulators. Tonne: Metric ton   2,205 pounds EPA: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ERM: Enterprise Risk Management ESG: Environmental, social and governance Table of Contents Overview Advance Environmental Stewardship Empower Our People Engage Stakeholders and Communities Execute with Integrity Appendix Additional Resources 58 Additional RESOURCES Download Report Sections ä GRI Content Index ä SASB Refining and Marketing Table ä SASB Midstream Table ä Perspectives on Climate-Related Scenarios ä 2024 MPC Sustainability Highlights ä Policies and Supporting Materials ä Marathonpetroleum.com ä This publication contains forward-looking statements regarding Marathon Petroleum Corporation (MPC) and MPLX LP (MPLX). These forwardlooking statements may relate to, among other things, our expectations, estimates and projections concerning its business and operations, financial priorities, strategic plans and initiatives, capital return plans, capital expenditure plans, operating cost reduction objectives, and environmental, social and governance (ESG) plans and goals. Forward-looking and other statements regarding our ESG plans and goals are not an indication that these statements are material to investors or are required to be disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In the context of this disclosure, the term  material  is distinct from, and should not be confused with, such term as defined for SEC reporting purposes. You can identify forward-looking statements by words such as  anticipate,   believe,   commitment,   could,   design,   endeavor,   estimate,   expect,   forecast,   goal,   guidance,   intend,   may,   objective,   opportunity,   outlook,   plan,   policy,   position,   potential,   predict,   priority,   progress,   project,   prospective,   pursue,   seek,   should,   strategy,   strive,   target,   trends,   will,   would  or other similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Forward-looking statements in this document include, among other things, statements regarding our ESG plans and goals, including those related to our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity targets; methane emissions intensity targets; freshwater withdrawal intensity targets; biodiversity initiatives; inclusion initiatives; ESG reporting; success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated capital or maintenance projects; future market, industry, regulatory and legislative conditions; future safety performance; future financial and operating performance and results; management of future risks; future levels of capital, environmental or maintenance expenditures, general and administrative and other expenses; business strategies, growth opportunities and expected investments, including plans to improve commercial performance, lower costs and optimize our asset portfolio; consumer demand for refined products, natural gas, renewables and natural gas liquids, such as ethane, propane, butanes and natural gasoline, which we refer to as  NGLs ; the anticipated effects of actions of third parties such as competitors, activist investors, federal, foreign, state or local regulatory authorities, or plaintiffs in litigation. We caution that these statements are based on management s current knowledge and expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from the statements made herein. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied in the forward-looking statements include but are not limited to: general economic, political or regulatory developments, including changes in governmental policies relating to refined petroleum products, crude oil, natural gas, NGLs, GHG emissions, renewables or taxation; the regional, national and worldwide demand for refined products, natural gas and renewables and related margins; the regional, national or worldwide availability and pricing of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other feedstocks and related pricing differentials; the success or timing of completion of ongoing or anticipated projects; the timing and ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and permits and to satisfy other conditions necessary to complete planned projects within the expected time frames, if at all; the availability of desirable strategic alternatives to optimize portfolio assets and the ability to obtain regulatory and other approvals with respect thereto; the inability or failure of our joint venture partners to fund their share of operations and development activities; the financing and distribution decisions of joint ventures we do not control; our ability to successfully implement our sustainable energy strategy and principles and achieve our ESG plans and goals within the expected time frames, if at all; the occurrence of industrial incidents; changes in government incentives for emission-reduction products and technologies; evolving standards for tracking and reporting on GHG emissions; the outcome of research and development efforts to create future technologies necessary to achieve our ESG plans and goals; the availability of feedstocks for lower-emission fuels; the availability of cost-effective carbon credits; the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainabilityrelated standards; our ability to scale projects and technologies on a commercially competitive basis; actions of competitors; changes in regional and global economic growth rates and consumer preferences, including consumer support for emission-reduction products and technology; the availability of cost-effective carbon credits; our ability to identify and recruit qualified employee candidates; and the factors set forth under the headings  Risk Factors  and  Disclosures Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  in MPC s and MPLX s Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2024, and in other filings with the SEC. Copies of MPC s SEC filings are available on the SEC website, MPC s website at https://www.marathonpetroleum.com/Investors/ or by contacting MPC s Investor Relations office. Copies of MPLX s SEC filings are available on the SEC website, MPLX s website at http://ir.mplx.com or by contacting MPLX s Investor Relations office. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the applicable communication, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement except to the extent required by applicable law. Neither future distribution of this material nor the continued availability of this material in archive form on our website should be deemed to constitute an update or reaffirmation of these figures or statements as of any future date. This publication is a shareholder-requested publication and is purposefully focused on unknown future events. This publication is not intended to communicate any material investment information. The statements and analysis in these documents represent a good faith effort to address these requests despite significant unknown variables. Historical, current and forward-looking sustainability-related information and statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. We caution that this information is approximate, these statements and information reflect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees of future performance, nor promises that our goals will be met, and are subject to numerous and evolving risks and uncertainties that we may not be able to predict or assess. In some cases, we may determine to adjust or abandon our commitments, targets or goals or establish new ones to reflect changes in our business, operations or plans. Any reference to our support of a third-party organization within this publication does not constitute or imply an endorsement by us of any or all of the positions or activities of such organization. Any website references are included for convenience only, and we assume no liability for thirdparty content contained on the referenced websites.