MMaarrkkss aanndd SSppeenncceerr GGrroouupp ppllcc
ESG Report 2024
ESG Report 2024
g
n
pi
a
h
s
e
R
M&S
LOTS DONE LOTS TO DO LOTS OF
OPPORTUNITY
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
Reshaping
IN THIS REPORT
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY SOCIAL
2 CEO introduction 33 Animal welfare
4 Highlights from the year 36 Ethical trade
5 Progress overview 40 Healthier food
42 People
M&S 44 Community
OUR ESG STRATEGY
7 Our ESG strategy
GOVERNANCE
ENVIRONMENT 46 Governance
47 ESG Committee review
10 Net zero
14 Responsible sourcing
20 Sustainable manufacturing
ESG DATA
23 W aste & circularity
49 ESG data introduction
27 R educing carbon in our
50 Data sheets and indices
operations
62 Independent assurance
statement
REPORT TOOLS ABOUT THIS REPORT FIND OUT MORE
We use these icons to show This report covers the scope of
Annual Report 2024
FOOD where information relates our Environment, Social and
to Food or Clothing & Home. Governance (ESG) programme M&S Corporate website
Look out for them (see page 7). We have structured
C&H TCFD Report 2024
throughout the report. the report in line with this
approach. It was published in Modern Slavery Statement 2024
June 2024 and covers our
This icon shows where content Basis of Reporting 2024
financial year from 2 April 2023
NET
ZERO aligns to our 10 priority net zero to 30 March 2024.
Family Matters Index
areas.
All imagery in this report depicts
M&S products, stores and our
supply chain.
COVER:
M&S King Asparagus
IMAGE:
M&S COLLECTION Satin Look Belted Longline
Waistcoat (T593505J) £45
M&S COLLECTION Satin Tailored Wide Leg Trousers
(T593505T) £35
M&S Metallic Clutch Bag
(T011214Z) £25
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 1
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
CEO INTRODUCTION
Over the last year we have reset setting up a milk pool, meaning we have paid
farmers a fair price for their milk based on
our purpose and vision so we are
their cost of production, for 25 years. Last
clear why we exist, who we are year we were the first retailer to offer “best
before” labelling on fully recyclable milk
and where we are going. We
bottles, following the removal of coloured
want to be the most trusted
plastic caps, helping customers to tackle
retailer, doing the right thing for food waste and play their part in a circular
economy – two key areas where customers
customers, with quality
want to make an impact. Just a few months
products at the heart of ago, we announced a £1m investment with
our supplier partners to alter the diet of our
everything we do. It’s a bold
pasture-grazed cows which will remove a
vision, but it gets to the heart of
projected 11,000 tonnes of GHG emissions
what sets M&S apart. It’s why, annually – reducing our fresh milk carbon
tonnes footprint by 8.4%.
when I joined the business, I
In our Clothing & Home business, I saw
talked about the need to
first-hand just how much care our clothing
modernise the business but
suppliers take when sourcing and making
always protect the magic our garments when I visited Sri Lanka. From
innovating to use recycled polyester and new
of M&S.
dyeing techniques that use less chemicals
and water, to supporting those who find it
The magic that comes from our heritage
hardest to get into work through Marks &
of exceptional quality, value, service and
Start, they are doing fantastic work. It was
innovation; delivered through our deep
“ brilliant to see the way we are working in
supplier partnerships, and the lengths
partnership with our suppliers to reduce
that we go to. The magic that means
WE WANT TO BE THE MOST our environmental impact and improve
our customers trust us to always source
livelihoods.
and make products with care, treat our
TRUSTED RETAILER, DOING
colleagues, growers and farmers well,
and help them look after the precious
THE RIGHT THING FOR
resources we need to serve customers
today, and in the future.
CUSTOMERS, WITH QUALITY
Plan A – how we express our commitment
PRODUCTS AT THE HEART OF
to sustainability – is therefore core to our
vision and purpose, and integral to our
EVERYTHING WE DO.
trusted value proposition.
A great example of this is how we source,
STUART MACHIN make and sell milk in our Food business.
Chief Executive Officer We are the only retailer who can say all of
the milk we sell, coming from 40 dedicated
Select Dairy Farmers, is RSPCA Assured –
as part of our market-leading approach to
animal welfare. We were first to market in
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 2
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
CEO INTRODUCTION CONTINUED
Of course, Plan A and ESG is integrated into
our Reshaping M&S for Growth strategy, LOTS DONE LOTS TO DO LOTS OF
with accountability for delivery devolved to
the Managing Directors and the Executive OPPORTUNITY
Committee. You can read the detail of the
progress we’ve made – and we have made
good progress – as well as the challenges – Reduced Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions – Refining the accuracy of our Scope 3 – Use data and insight from the ESG
we face in the rest of this report. But, to me by 33% since 2016/17 emissions aligned to our near- and Reputation Tracker to better
as CEO, what matters is that Plan A is core – 70% of polyester from verified medium-term carbon glide path communicate the work we do
to who we are and what we want M&S to be. recycled sources and resubmission to SBTi through Plan A to customers
– Further conversion of preferred – Integration of ESG strategy as
Plan A – because there is no plan b. – 100% of cotton in clothing from more
materials, especially Man-Made part of the reset of our international
responsible sources1
Cellulosic Fibres (MMCF) business growth plans
– Retained our No. 1 position in UK retail
– Delivery of our headline – Roll-out of improved customer
for Fairtrade tea and coffee
charity partnership with circularity proposition in
– Launched our Cup of AmbitionTM fund
YoungMinds through a Clothing & Home
across UK Cafés
STUART MACHIN series of customer and
– Seeing the results of our investment
Chief Executive Officer – Became the only national retailer to colleague campaigns
in innovations from the “Plan A
sell only RSPCA Assured fresh milk
Accelerator Fund”
– Launched fully recyclable coffee cups
– Successfully lobbied the Government
to remove VAT on sustainable
period pants
– Removed 144m pieces of plastic
from our packaging portfolio
– Prevented 85m hangers going to
landfill though our Reuse and
Recycling Programme
– Reached 70m meals donated through
our partnership with Neighbourly and
1m fresh meals with FareShare
– Raised £1.7m for YoungMinds
– 693 Marks & Start work placements
started, with over 80% leading to an
offer of employment with M&S
Per Una Linen Blend Blazer
(T534403) £79
£ m Per Una Cotton Rich Broderie
5.6
Midaxi Dress (T5333784U) £79
M&S COLLECTION Raffia
Jeans Belt (T017043B) £25
donated to charities by M&S
M&S COLLECTION Gold Tone
1 M ore responsibly sourced cotton means sourced through Better Cotton, Bubble Hoop Earrings
organic- or recycled-certified. (T669807E) £10
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 3
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE YEAR
£ m % m
1.7 33 144
raised for YoungMinds reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions vs 2016/17 baseline pieces of plastic removed
from our packaging
Read more on page 27
Read more on page 44 Read more on page 23
% m %
100 70 70
of the cotton in clothing from more meals donated through our partnership with of polyester used in Clothing & Home products
responsible sources Neighbourly since 2015 from verified recycled sources
Read more on page 18 Read more on page 24 Read more on page 18
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 4
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
PROGRESS OVERVIEW
Assessment
Issue Metric Target of progress
ENVIRONMENT
NET ZERO Total location-based Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHG emissions.* 55% reduction by 2029/30
(vs 2016/17 base year)
Total Scope 3 GHG emissions. 55% reduction by 2029/30
(vs 2016/17 base year)
RESPONSIBLE RSPO Certified Sustainable Palm Oil with Segregated status (% of all palm oil).* 100% by 2025/26
SOURCING
Soy sourced from verified deforestation and conversion-free (vDCF) supply chains 100% by 2025/26
(% of total direct and indirect soy).
Cotton used in Clothing & Home products from more responsible sources (% of all cotton used). 100% by 2025/26
Polyester used in Clothing & Home products from verified recycled sources 100% by 2025/26
(% of all polyester used).**
WASTE & CIRCULARITY Number of individual pieces of plastic (units) that have been removed from the M&S own-brand Remove 1bn units by the end
packaging portfolio. of 2027/28 from 2016/17
Food waste.* 50% reduction by 2029/30
(vs 2016/17 base year)
Food not sold that was fit for human consumption which was redistributed to charities, 100% by 2025/26
community organisations or colleagues.*
Operational waste to landfill.* Maintain 0%
SOCIAL
ANIMAL WELFARE Ranking among retailers, with highest number of species within M&S Food product range Maintain #1 position
adhering to RSPCA Assured certification.
PEOPLE Senior managers who are female. 50% by 2025/26
COMMUNITY Funds raised for YoungMinds. £5m by 2026/27 from 2023/24
* Assured by DNV
** This data is subject to a discrete assurance process linked to our financing and is scheduled to be published in autumn 2024 see page 49. Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 5
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
OUR ESG
STRATEGY
IN THIS SECTION
7 Our ESG strategy
Image:
M&S Denim Collection
Marks and Spencer Group plc
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
OUR ESG STRATEGY
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES ARE SUPPORTED
AND ENHANCED BY OUR ESG STRATEGY
From the very beginning, M&S has built trust
by doing the right thing by our colleagues,
customers and the communities which Deliver OVERNAN
C
we serve. This remains the case today – Profitable Sales G E
growth
140 years later – and we express this
commitment through our vision to be the
most trusted brand, doing the right thing
for our customers, with exceptional quality
products at the heart of everything we do.
O Pl u a r n a A p – p r u o n a d c e h r p to in E s S o G u – r v w i h si i o c n h a w n e d b i a s d o g u e r I O m p p e r r o a v t e in g M E N T R E S S O P O U O U R N R C C S I I I N N B G L G E NE NT EZ TE R O
margins S
promise to always source and make our N
A
p
tr
r
u
o
s
d
t
u
u
c
s
t
t
s
o
w
d
it
o
h
t
c
h
a
e
r e
ri
,
g
s
h
o
t
c
t
u
h
s
in
to
g
m
. It
e
i
r
s
s
a
c
l
a
s
n
o an R
O
N A B
L
UU
E
RR I
N
I
N GG N IM
A L
i
M
nt
&
e
S
g
f
r
o
a
r
l
s
e
u
n
s
a
t
b
a
l
i
e
n
r
a
o
b
f
l e
o
,
u
p
r
r o
st
fi
r
t
a
a
t
b
eg
le
y
G
to
ro
R
w
e
t
s
h
h
s
a
o
p e
N V
I
U S T
A
U
I
U F A F A
CC TT PLAN A W
E L F A
that we become a net zero business across
SN
N R
E A
A E
our value chain by 2040 and conserve the Disciplined
M
M
precious resources our business relies on. Investment
choices E
YY T
Delivery of our ESG strategy and Plan A
& R I
T
R I
T ESG H
I C
is embedded across our nine strategic EAA
A
T
priorities and through our business-unit S
A
L U
C
L U
C
STRATEGY
T
L
led operating model. We utilise data, digital W RR R
A
II
and technology solutions and innovation CC D
E
to support the delivery of our ESG strategy,
Drive
and data aids ESG decision-making so we Shareholder
returns O D
focus on the issues that are material to our
EP O
EFE O
b an u d si n w e id s e s, r a s n ta d k m eh a o tt ld er e m rs. ost to customers F F F I I C C I
I
E
E
R
N
A T IO
N HOI
EO RD F
A
L
Plan A. Because there is no plan b. NC CI Y E S A L E A L TF C I
H O
S
C
O
M
M
UNITY
PEOPLE
M D
A N
IN
R
A
T A IN ING
OUR
TRUSTE D B
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 7
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
OUR ESG STRATEGY CONTINUED
ENVIRONMENT for workers so their human rights are
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES OUR ESG PRIORITIES Our biggest environmental commitment and respected and they are treated with
challenge is to become a net zero business fairness and dignity.
across our entire value chain by 2040. Six per
1. EXCEPTIONAL – Healthier food – helping our customers
Deliver
GOVERNANCE OPERATIONAL cent of our emissions are Scope 1 & 2
make healthier choices when they buy
Profitable Sales PRODUCT,
growth EFFICIENCIES emissions that sit within our own operations our food.
TRUSTED
NET ZERO and our operational efficiencies section
RETAILER – People – creating a high performing
ANIMAL WELFARE outlines how we are reducing these
culture where everyone can be themselves
RESPONSIBLE
2. CUSTOMER emissions. The remaining 94% are Scope 3
and be their best.
CENTRIC SOURCING ETHICAL TRADE emissions, that sit within our supply chain. To
BUSINESSES reduce these emissions, we will need to – Community – using the power of our
SUSTAINABLE HEALTHIER FOOD change the way we operate our business, how brand to champion good causes with
3. EXPANDED MANUFACTURING we source and how we make our products. charity partners and taking an active
GLOBAL REACH
PEOPLE This report provides an update on our role in our communities.
WASTE &
activity and progress on our journey to net
GOVERNANCE
CIRCULARITY COMMUNITY zero, including:
Good governance is at the core of how we do
– Responsible sourcing – sourcing business. We expect every colleague to play
4. STRUCTURALLY
Improve GOVERNANCE PEOPLE responsibly to mitigate our impact on the their part through living our behaviour to
Operating LOWER COSTS
margins environment and protecting biodiversity “act selflessly” – always acting in the best
5. HIGH NET ZERO and nature (Scope 3 emissions). long-term interests of M&S and respecting
PERFORMANCE their colleagues and our customers so we
– Sustainable manufacturing –
CULTURE WASTE & can win together – and by doing the right
collaborating with supply chain partners to
CIRCULARITY thing through compliance with our policies
tackle environmental issues (Scope 3
and standards.
emissions).
– Waste & circularity – designing products PRIORITISING MATERIAL ISSUES
6. ACCELERATING
Disciplined
GOVERNANCE ETHICAL TRADE that are simply too good to waste, and Assessing the priorities of our ESG strategy
Investment STORE ROTATION
choices using innovation to improve resource and disclosures is based on data and impact,
7. MODERNISED NET ZERO COMMUNITY use (Scope 3 emissions). so that we focus on the environmental and
SUPPLY CHAIN social issues our stakeholders are most
OPERATIONAL – Operational efficiencies – investing to
concerned with. The process of engagement
8. D ATA, DIGITAL EFFICIENCIES reduce energy usage in our stores and with stakeholders is a continuous one,
AND logistics network (Scope 1 & 2 emissions).
starting primarily with our customers
TECHNOLOGY
through our ESG Reputation Tracker, and
SOCIAL
with our colleagues via “Straight to Stuart”,
9. DISCIPLINED As a product-led business, sourcing and
Drive
GOVERNANCE our colleague feedback portal.
Shareholder CAPITAL making our products with care is at the heart
returns ALLOCATION of how we deliver exceptional product so
We also engage a wide and diverse group
NET ZERO
customers can trust us to do the right thing.
of organisations and experts, including
This report provides an update on our
supply chain partners, investors, policy-
activity and progress over 2023/24,
makers and campaigners. The rich mix of
including:
feedback and views helps us aim higher
in balancing different and sometimes
– Animal welfare – continuing to be number
competing expectations.
one in upholding the welfare of animals.
Read more on our strategy in our Environment Social
Annual Report – Ethical trade – raising supply chain
standards to improve working conditions
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 8
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ENVIRONMENT
IN THIS SECTION
10 Net zero
14 Responsible sourcing
20 Sustainable manufacturing
23 Waste & circularity
27 R educing carbon in our operations
Image:
M&S Carrots
Marks and Spencer Group plc
Scope 3
Scope 3 5.2m
5m
Scope 2
296k
Scope 2
137k
Scope 1 Scope 1
240k 225k
5.5m 5.6m
Business
growth
Scope
1
&
2
reductions
Scope
3
reductions
2
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
NET ZERO
Plan A was launched in 2007
TARGETS OUR EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 BY SOURCE
NET and reset in 2021 to focus more
ZERO 2022/23 (tCO e)
2
tightly on our commitment to Purchased Purchased Upstream
FOOD goods C&H goods & services transportation &
being a net zero business across
NEAR-TERM (<3 YEARS) & services distribution
our entire value chain by 2040.
Target 2023/24
34% (1.9m tonne) progress 5.6m 58% 31% 6%
reduction in
72% OUR EMISSIONS
carbon emissions
Our Scope 1 & 2 emissions make up 6% of our
by 2025/26 against
pathway identified total emissions and come from the fuel, gas
2016/17 baseline Franchises End-of-life treatment Other Scope 3
and electricity used in our stores and
(restated). of sold products
logistics operations. We have reduced these
Scope 1 4%
emissions by 33% since 2016/171.
MEDIUM-TERM (3-10 YEARS)
Scope 2 2% 2% 2% 1%
The majority of our carbon footprint though
Target is upstream and downstream of our direct
Scope 3 94%
55% reduction in
operations, classified as Scope 3 greenhouse
carbon emissions
gas (GHG) emissions. These make up 94% of
by 2029/30 against
our total footprint, with the majority of
2016/17 baseline.
Scope 3 emissions coming from the products REDUCTIONS AND INCREASES THAT HAVE
OUR EMISSIONS
we purchase to sell through our Food and LED TO A 0.1M TOTAL EMISSIONS GROWTH
PERFORMANCE (RESTATED)
LONG-TERM (>10 YEARS) Clothing & Home businesses. This year, we
(tCO e)
have restated our 2016/17 baseline and our 2
Target
2022/23 inventory with improved data
Net zero across
providing a more granular Scope 3 emissions
entire value chain Updated Updated
number. Due to the complexity of gathering
by 2039/40. 2016/17 2022/23
and calculating these emissions, going
forward we will continue to report our Scope
3 emissions a year in arrears for improved
accuracy and reliability.
The graph to the right shows the restatement
of our emissions for 2016/17 and 2022/23. The
key change to our emissions data was driven
by improved calculations on the purchased
goods in our Clothing & Home business.
See case study on page 12
In line with the strong growth in our business 1 U nless otherwise stated, Scope 1 & 2 emissions are
calculated using location-based methodology.
since 2016/17 our overall footprint has
2 W hile we are reporting more granular emissions and can
increased, but this year we have been able to now reflect some of our emissions reduction activity
show we have mitigated a large portion of within our inventory, we will continue to improve how we
report our Scope 3 emissions, to reflect more of our
this through the emissions reduction emissions reduction programmes within our footprint.
programmes we have in place.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 10
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
NET ZERO CONTINUED
NET ZERO TRANSITION ROADMAP
Getting to net zero
Near-term: <3 years Medium-term: 3-10 years Long-term: 10+ years
To support our net zero ambition, we have
OUR BASELINE
near- and medium-term targets that align 2025/26 TARGET 2029/30 TARGET 2039/40 TARGET
with climate science to limit global warming 5.5m 34% reduction 55% reduction Net zero
to 1.5 ˚C; these include our 2029/30 target,
tonnes of carbon emitted in carbon emissions in carbon emissions versus across entire value chain
which is Science Based Target initiative in 2016/171 (1.9m tonnes) our baseline
(SBTi)-approved:
SBTi APPROVED
Marks and Spencer plc commits to reduce
absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions
55% by 2030 from a 2017 base year. Marks 10 IMMEDIATE PRIORITY
and Spencer plc also commits to reduce NET
AREAS FOR TRANSFORMATION
absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions by 55% ZERO
within the same timeframe.
Our near-term target supports our SBTi-
approved target: a 34% reduction in GHG
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING WASTE & CIRCULARITY OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES
emissions by 2025/26. With the update of our
baseline emissions, we have restated this
target from 2.1m tonnes of emissions to
1.9m tonnes.
Zero deforestation Increasing the range of Circular economy Zero emissions property
- 100% of soy to be sourced plant-based protein Support Oxfam with Deliver a more efficient
Our 10 net zero priorities continue to focus
from verified deforestation- Double the sales of vegan Shwopping, our clothes store estate.
activity across the business and progress on
and conversion-free regions and vegetarian products recycling scheme.
these are signposted throughout the
by 2025/26. by 2024/25.
Environment sections with our net zero icon.
- 100% segregated
responsibly sourced palm oil
by 2025/26.
Sustainable sourcing Suppliers and business Reduce food waste Zero emissions transport
100% verified recycled partners on net zero journey - 100% of edible surplus to be Move to low-carbon
polyester by 2025/26. Look beyond our own redistributed by 2025/26. logistics with reduced
operations to spark change and dependency on diesel and
- Food waste reduced by 50%
support decarbonising across increased use of new
by 2029/30.
our full value chain. technologies and cleaner
fuels. Contributing to
cross-industry action
Low-impact farming Reduce and recycle packaging
through collaboration.
Support our farmers to enable - 100% of packaging to be
them to grow low-carbon, recyclable by 2025/26.
responsible food, use fewer
- Remove 1bn units of plastic
pesticides, enhance their soil,
packaging by 2027/28.
protect natural resources and
drive innovation.
1 R estated in line with methodological changes and
improved data.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 11
NET ZERO CONTINUED
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR 2023/24 Technology: Using new agricultural
technology to produce a field of net zero UNDERSTANDING OUR CLOTHING & HOME
We have been able to calculate realised GHG
root crops, which includes using low carbon
emissions savings of 447,000 tCO e since produc t foot pri nt
2 fertilisers and autonomous farm vehicles
2016/17 through our focus on 10 net zero
and drones. Also using AI technology to
priority areas and we have now identified a
improve energy management in store
pathway of emissions reduction for 72% of
operations and distribution centres.
our 2025/26 target, an increase from 62% last
In 2023, we worked with South Pole, SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS ACROSS OUR
year. On an ongoing basis we will continue to
Water: Applying innovative solutions to an external climate consultant, to CLOTHING & HOME SUPPLY CHAIN TIERS (%)
review and improve our data and reporting
water in irrigation systems such as calculate Scope 3 carbon emissions from
on our carbon emissions to reflect business
nanobubble technology (water with manufacturing our Clothing & Home
change, the evolution of carbon
increased oxygen) and organic products across our supply chain tiers –
measurement techniques and guidance and
components, to conserve water resources from raw material selection, to fabric
the impact of emerging technologies.
in the production of fruits and brassicas in processing and product manufacturing. 41%
water-scarce regions. This process led us to restate our Scope 3
Driving innovation through our Plan A 33%
emissions to be more accurate and
Accelerator Fund
highlighted emissions hotspots where we
In 2022, we launched our £1m “Plan A
can focus on emissions reduction shown in
Accelerator Fund” to fund or co-fund “
14%
the graph. 12%
projects that address challenges and
By turning our obsession with
support innovation that will help us reduce
We have divided our carbon footprint
emissions. This year we have worked with our innovation towards climate
across Clothing & Home into two
long-term supply chain partners to focus on
change, and tapping into the workstreams, each with key “interventions”
key areas where we’re well placed to make a
to reduce emissions across our value
entrepreneurial spirit of our
difference. We funded projects this year that
chain:
pilot innovative modern technologies, drive suppliers, we can turbo charge
– converting raw materials to preferred
carbon reduction, and deliver outputs and
our drive to be a net zero
alternatives (for more details see page
lessons that can be scaled and are shareable
with our broader supply chain. business across all our 18).
– reducing manufacturing emissions in
operations and entire supply We addressed areas including:
production (for more details see page
chain by 2040.
Energy: Producing green hydrogen through 21).
electrolysis technology using wind or solar
STUART MACHIN
power generated on farms to replace fossil
Chief Executive Officer
fuels, and pasteurisation using heat pumps
and renewable electricity.
Recycling: Introducing Polytag technology
on Food products to better understand how
much, when and where our branded single-
use plastic is recycled in UK recycling
centres. In our Clothing & Home business, we
are piloting the viability of an end-of-life
recycling solution for footwear.
Tier
1:
Finished
product
factories
Tier
2:
Materials
production
Tier
3:
Raw
materials
processing
Tier
4:
Raw
materials
extraction
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 12
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
NET ZERO CONTINUED
CHALLENGES WE FACE ON OUR JOURNEY TO NET ZERO
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
FOCUS FOR 2024/25 MEASURING EMISSIONS REDUCTION POLICIES AND INCENTIVES
In 2024/25, we will resubmit for validation our We are improving how we gather data to Reaching net zero will require the right
medium-term emissions target and submit calculate our overall emissions. For our support and policy frameworks from
our long-term net zero target to SBTi taking Scope 1 & 2 emissions, we use Sphera to governments. We want to see a net zero
into consideration updated guidance for collect and collate our emissions. For our pathway published, that shifts away from
forest, land and agricultural emissions1. Scope 3 emissions, by collaborating with the sole focus on reporting, and assists
industry partners such as Manufacture with making investment decisions, and
Throughout our supply chain we will
2030 and Higg Index, we are accessing includes specific strategies for
continue to focus on improving how we
more supplier data so we can have a better transitioning to a more sustainable
collect and report on emissions as well as
understanding of our emissions hotspots. logistics network, supporting more
prioritise innovation and collaboration in
South Pole assisted with our Clothing & circular products and greener energy. In
order to identify further emissions reduction
Home products, and Mondra is used in our the UK, we will continue to work
opportunities. This will include
Food business to provide product level collaboratively with sector partners, such
understanding the results of our already
emissions. The transition as the Institute of Grocery Distribution
approved Plan A Accelerator Fund projects,
to net zero is not (IGD) and the British Retail Consortium
rolling them out more broadly if successful As we build on our emissions
straightforward. We (BRC), to clarify what coordination,
and promoting new submissions from our methodology, we will continue to
believe it is important to support and incentives are required across
supply chain partners. encounter challenges in having a
acknowledge the industry as we work towards net zero.
comparable baseline year for setting
challenges and continue
We will also work towards a Transition Plan
targets. As highlighted on page 10, we will
to drive efforts to
Taskforce (TPT) – aligned transition plan to
be transparent on how changes impact
collaborate and
ensure we have a detailed roadmap for our
our targets.
innovate to overcome
own net zero target and the transition to a
obstacles.
low-carbon economy.
Read more on page 10
TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION
We know a lot of emissions reductions
IMPROVING TRACEABILITY
across our supply chain are reliant on
improved technology and innovation. We are working towards comprehensive
Through our Plan A Accelerator Fund, we traceability throughout our complex
support innovation with our suppliers and supply chains, especially in the textile
partners in the textile, agricultural and supply chain. Improved traceability will
logistics industries, and promote help us map our emissions in more detail
emissions reduction in our supply chains. and target emissions reduction activities.
Read more on page 12 Read more on page 18
1 Forests, Land and Agriculture – Science Based Targets
and Land Sector and Removals Guidance | GHG
Protocol
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 13
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
As a product-led business, we go
to great lengths to source and
make our products with care.
This approach is at the heart of how we
deliver exceptional products and uphold our
trusted brand. By sourcing responsibly we
can reduce our environmental impact,
enhance biodiversity, protect precious
natural resources and use innovation to
stimulate carbon savings through supply
chains. By holding ourselves accountable to
high standards and strong policies, we work
in collaboration with supply chain partners to
deliver lower-impact and exceptional quality
products our customers expect.
OUR OWN-BRAND SUPPLY CHAINS
FOOD FOOD C&H CLOTHING & HOME
DIRECT SUPPLY SITES
TIER 1: FINISHED PRODUCT FACTORIES
INTERMEDIARY PROCESSING & PACKAGING
TIER 2: MATERIALS PRODUCTION
TIER 3: RAW MATERIALS PROCESSING
Livestock & Raw materials/ Smallholder
TIER 4: RAW MATERIALS EXTRACTION
Fisheries aquaculture Produce farms Ingredients farmers
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 14
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING CONTINUED
Soy invest back into their plantations. Since 2017
TARGETS FOOD Soy is a globally traded commodity and a we have been committed to sourcing all of
FOOD FOOD
significant source of animal feed protein. the cocoa (by volume) used in our own-brand
58% of our total Scope 3 emissions
However, due to agricultural expansion to products through sustainability schemes
come from products we sell in Food. Our
meet demand, soy is contributing to global such as Fairtrade and Rainforest Alliance.
SOY reputation for great-tasting, and exceptional
NET deforestation and land-use change.
ZERO quality food is built on leading sourcing Tea and coffee
standards. From palm oil to tea, we source Given the UK represents only around 1% of As well as sourcing the best-tasting, quality
Target 2023/24 our key ingredients responsibly, limiting global demand, a collaborative industry tea and coffee from growers and cooperatives
100% of soy to be progress impacts on communities and the planet. approach is required to ensure that all of the around the world, all of our tea and coffee is
sourced from We continue to strengthen our sourcing soy in our suppliers’ animal and aquaculture Fairtrade-certified. This year, we also went
66%
verified standards to ensure we do not contribute feed is from verified deforestation- and one step further and launched our Cup of
deforestation and to deforestation. conversion-free (vDCF) supply chains by AmbitionTM fund in our UK Cafés,
conversion-free 2025. We have made considerable progress empowering producers in our tea and coffee
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR 2023/24
(DCF) supply in our responsible sourcing of soy having origins.
chains by 2025/261. Palm oil now achieved 66% verified deforestation and
All of the palm oil and palm-based conversion free soy1 in the year ending Read more on page 39
ingredients in our own-brand food products 2023/24 (2022/23: 39%).
PALM OIL
NET are certified to sustainable standards set by
ZERO LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
In 2023/24, we updated our Animal Feed
the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil
FOCUS FOR 2024/25
Policy to clarify our expectations for M&S key
(RSPO), with 98% from a segregated source.
Target 2023/24
This means that sustainable palm oil from suppliers and manufacturers3, requesting We are working to strengthen our sourcing
100% segregated progress
certified sources is kept separately from they increase their uptake of certified soy programme with stronger social and
RSPO certified
98% non-sustainable palm oil throughout the that can be evidenced to support the environmental standards across soy,
palm oil in our
supply chain and does not contribute to transition to vDCF by the UK Soy Manifesto. palm oil, cocoa, tea and coffee.
own-brand food
deforestation or biodiversity loss2. We’re
products by Cocoa
proud to see our work on sustainable palm Read more on page 38
2025/262. The cocoa industry faces significant challenges,
oil recognised as we were ranked as “Leading
including the inequality of cocoa farmers’
the Way” in the World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
pay, which can make it difficult for farmers to
COCOA
Palm Buyers 2024 Scorecard and received
top marks in the RSPO Shared Responsibility
Target 2023/24
100% of cocoa (by progress 2023 Scorecard. FOREVER
volume) used in Sa ba h
100%
own-brand
products to be
sourced through
sustainability
In addition to sourcing RSPO certified palm smallholder farmers to cultivate palm
schemes.
oil we extend our commitment beyond our sustainably, enabling more RSPO certified
direct supply chains by partnering with sustainable palm to come to market. We
TEA AND COFFEE Forever Sabah, a non-profit organisation, are continuing our investment and have
1 I ncludes transitional mechanisms such as mass balance,
where we have supported the audit and also partnered with Pacos Trust,
area mass balance and RTRS regional credits.
Target 2023/24
2 T he remaining 2% are palm oil derivatives and fractions successful RSPO certification of a non-profit organisation, to deliver
100% tea and progress where sourcing RSPO-segregated materials is an
smallholders in Malaysia. This workshops to support smallholders in their
coffee is Fairtrade- industry-wide challenge.
100% 3 S ignificant food suppliers that procure from M&S Select collaborative effort not only safeguards understanding of human rights and
certified.
Livestock or Aquaculture Farms, supply M&S with forests but also empowers local gender issues in their community.
products, or supply animal protein products as
ingredients to direct suppliers of M&S.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 15
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING CONTINUED
Over the past year, we have continued to Since 2021 we have partnered with LEAF
work hard with Fairtrade and our supplier LOW-IMPACT FARMING NET (Linking Environment and Farming) to help us BAKING WITH
ZERO
partners to secure the future sourcing of deliver our Farming with Nature standards:
Wi ldfa rmed
We support all our farmers, particularly
Fairtrade tea from Assam. Due to unique we require all of our British growers to be
British farmers, to grow lower-carbon and
challenges in the region, we are working LEAF (Linking Environment and Farming)
responsibly produced food, using less
together on an innovative new regional Marque certified, plus complete two
pesticide with fewer types, enhance their soil
approach in Assam that provides a pathway additional M&S-specific modules, focused on
health and fertility, protect natural resources We have deepened our collaboration
towards certification and the long-term landscape & nature and integrated pest
and drive innovation. with Wildfarmed, a pioneering
supply of Fairtrade tea. This means we management. Uptake of our modules has
regenerative farming and food partner,
remain dedicated to paying the Fairtrade LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR 2023/24 been strong: our British Select Farmers have which aims to restore biodiversity, soil
Premium and Minimum Price as part of our met the majority of the practices (90% of
Supporting British farming health and ecosystem balance through
commitment to a fair future for workers in landscape and nature and 88% of integrated
Over 70% of the emissions in our Food its Regenerative Standards that ensure
Assam, the supply of this core ingredient, pest management practices) in 2023/24. One
business come from primary agriculture and practices without pesticides, herbicides,
and our 100% Fairtrade tea commitment. example of the high standards our growers
of these emissions, the majority come from or fungicides.
meet is all our growers set aside on average
The EU Deforestation Regulation comes into the production of meat. Partnering with over
8% of their land to wildlife. This year we were In 2023, we featured Wildfarmed
effect this year (with the draft UK Forest Risk 16,000 M&S Select Farmers to help them
pleased to have received recognition from regenerative flour in our top-performing
Commodities legislation to be determined), reduce their environmental impact and
the 2023 WWF Basket assessment; M&S was in-store bakery range as part of our Farm
which will drive the requirement for market- increase their resilience in the face of
the only retailer to score 100% against the to Foodhall campaign endorsed by chef
wide solutions to sourcing zero- increasing climate-related challenges is a
robust environmental schemes metric for our Tom Kerridge. Since our partnership with
deforestation commodities and support us in priority. There is growing acknowledgement
Farming with Nature standards. Wildfarmed started in 2022, over three
achieving our targets. of the role that animals can play in
million loaves of the M&S Collection
“regenerative” farming systems and in This year we started to scale successful
sourdough using Wildfarmed
For soy, we are continuing to collaborate with
restoring soil health. Our approach is to interventions and biodiversity and soil
regenerative flour have been sold.
industry groups to advocate for market-level
decarbonise our meat and milk through measurement technologies from the five
solutions to deliver higher volumes of vDCF
working with our UK farmers on new science-based biodiversity monitoring trials
soy to the UK.
production models and driving on-farm we have been working on in partnership with
Wildfarmed and M&S build on
We are also committed to maintaining all of innovation. Our Pathway Beef, for example, the Game and Wildlife Conservation Trust
relationship as regenerative flour is
the palm oil and palm-based ingredients in already has a carbon footprint 40% lower and Fera Science. This included funding and
baked into leading product-range
our own-brand food products certified to than the UK’s average and we have implementing Agrisound sensors across 18
and championed in retailer’s Farm to
sustainable standards set by the RSPO. For developed plans with our suppliers to reduce farms, covering 120 habitats and over 1,000
Foodhall campaign
the 2% mass balance palm oil derivatives in carbon right across our meat supply chain. hectares. The sensors use acoustic
our supply chain, we are working with our technology to measure pollinator abundance
Farming with Nature
supply chain partners and multi-stakeholder and support growers to deliver interventions
Biodiversity is vital for productive and
organisations such as the Retail Palm Oil to increase pollinator numbers.
resilient farming systems, and we cannot
Group and the UK Sustainable Commodities
deliver net zero without it. Our Farming with
Initiative to develop collective solutions to
Nature programme supports the uptake of
increase the availability of RSPO-segregated Producing delicious M&S quality products
nature-friendly farming practices, and
palm derivatives. in nature friendly ways – three years of
long-term climate resilience across all of our
M&S’ leading Farming with Nature
British grower base, protecting and
programme
enhancing 10,000 hectares of habitat for
wildlife.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 16
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING CONTINUED
Water LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
With a significant reliance on water in FFAARRMM OFOFR T HTHEE FOCUS FOR 2024/25
horticultural production systems and
FFuutt uurree Our priorities for 2024/25 include managing
increasingly extreme weather patterns, water
soils to develop resilient production, and
management is firmly on our agenda. In
using data collected through the Farming
2023, we funded a series of events on
with Nature Programme to gain knowledge
integrated approaches to water
IInn 22002233,, wwee llaauunncchheedd oouurr FFaarrmm foof rt thhee WWee bbeelliieevvee tthhaatt FFaarrmm foof rt thhee F Fuuttuurere w wilill l of the carbon benefits and nature-related
management for our UK grower groups, as
FFuuttuurree PPrrooggrraammmmee,, wwhhiicchh aaiimmss ttoo ssuuppppoorrtt ssuuppppoorrtt iinnnnoovvaattiivvee aapppprrooaacchheess iinn risks and impacts.
well as the role of nature-based solutions,
lliivveessttoocckk ffaarrmmeerrss ttoo rraappiiddllyy ddeeccaarrbboonniissee ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee ffaarrmmiinngg,, aanndd wwee wwiillll sshhaarree
including speakers from partner We source as much as we can from the UK;
aanndd aaddoopptt ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee pprraaccttiicceess,, ttooggeetthheerr kknnoowwlleeddggee aaccrroossss MM&&SS SSeelleecctt FFaarrmmss aanndd
organisations, research groups and farm where we source from overseas, we ensure
wwiitthh HHaarrppeerr AAddaammss UUnniivveerrssiittyy’’ss SScchhooooll ooff tthhee wwiiddeerr iinndduussttrryy ttoo ddrriivvee ssuussttaaiinnaabbllee
businesses. This year we also started funding the best quality products. We are committed
SSuussttaaiinnaabbllee FFoooodd aanndd FFaarrmmiinngg.. cchhaannggee.. WWee aarree ddeelliivveerriinngg FFaarrmm foof rt thhee
the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) to working in partnership with fresh produce
FFuuttuurree iinn ccoollllaabboorraattiioonn wwiitthh CCrraannsswwiicckk,,
Impact Accelerator in Huelva in Southern WWee aarree wwoorrkkiinngg wwiitthh sseevveenn MM&&SS SSeelleecctt growers overseas to support their resilience
SSkkeeaa EEggggss,, DDuunnbbiiaa,, SSccoottbbeeeeff,, LLiinnddeenn
Spain, an important soft fruit growing region FFaarrmmss aaccrroossss ssiixx kkeeyy pprroodduuccttiioonn sseeccttoorrss ttoo to climate change and product quality, and
FFooooddss,, MMüülllleerr aanndd 22 SSiisstteerrss FFoooodd GGrroouupp..
and home to the World Heritage site Doñana iiddeennttiiffyy aanndd iimmpplleemmeenntt pprraaccttiiccaall aaccttiivviittiieess tackle water stress, carbon reduction and
wetlands, which is under threat from drought ttoo hheellpp tthheemm aacchhiieevvee nneett zzeerroo aanndd biodiversity loss.
NNeewwss –– MM&&SS llaauunncchheess ccoollllaabboorraattiivvee
and water use. The project will equip our mmaaxxiimmiissee wwiillddlliiffee aanndd hhaabbiittaatt ccrreeaattiioonn.. T he
FFaarrmm ooff tthhee FFuuttuurree PPrrooggrraammmmee iinn Over the next two years, we will establish
suppliers with the knowledge, skills and sTehvee sne-vyeena-ry peraorg prraomgmraem wmilel awlsilol a slhsoow s how
ddrriivvee ttoo hheellpp ffaarrmmss aacchhiieevvee NNeett ZZeerroo | robust environmental standards (such as
networks they need to better understand wwhheerree wwee cnaene dn etoe dc htoa ncghea nogr ea doar patd eaxpits ting
Harper Adams University LEAF Marque and Global GAP Sustainable
their own water use and impacts, and work epxraiscttinicge sp rtoac dtricivees stuos dtraiivnea sbuilsittya.inability.
(harper-adams.ac.uk) Programme for Irrigation and Groundwater
together to solve shared water challenges.
use certification), along with innovation and
M&S plays a leading role in cross-sector support programmes for our highest-risk
engagement on nature and water-related overseas sourcing countries.
challenges through the Courtauld
Commitment 2030 Water Ambition, which
aims to help the UK food and drink sector
improve the quality and availability of water
across the 20 most important product- and
ingredient-sourcing regions. As signatories
we have committed to a shared goal of
sourcing 50% of fresh food from areas of
sustainable water management by 2030. In
2023/24, we provided additional funding for
the Courtauld 2030 Water Roadmap and are
now funding six water stewardship projects
in the highest-risk regions across the UK,
Southern Spain, Kenya, South Africa and Peru.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 17
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING CONTINUED
Cotton
CLOTHING & HOME
TARGETS C&H Over half of our raw materials mix is cotton.
C&H
Since 2019, we have sourced all of the cotton
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR
in our clothing through Better Cotton,
2023/24
organic- or recycled-certified. In 2023/24 we
POLYESTER 31% of our total Scope 3 emissions come from
continued to convert cotton in our
NET
ZERO products we sell in Clothing & Home.
homeware products, making significant
progress and are now at 93%. We are
Our choice of fibres and how they are
Target 2023/24
confident that we will meet our 100% cotton
sourced are important and the production
100% verified progress
target across Clothing & Home by 2025/26.
and initial transformation stages of our raw
recycled polyester
70% materials makes up around half of the
by 2025/261.
Clothing & Home product emissions. Read more on our website
This year we made progress, moving from
COTTON
Polyester
68% to 76% for responsibly sourced fibres.
We are really proud that in 2023 we achieved
While we did a lot of this through our
Target 2023/24
a significant milestone of 70%1 verified
in-house expertise, our supply chain is global
100% cotton from progress
recycled polyester and based on the
and very complex, so we work with partners,
more responsible
100%
such as Textile Exchange (a global non-profit
progress made across 2023/24, we are on
sources by
track to achieve 100% by the end of 2025/26.
who aim to drive impact through the fashion,
2025/26.
Clothing
textile and apparel industry) and the
Man-Made Cellulosic Fibres (MMCF)
CanopyStyle initiative, (who work with
Our preferred MMCF comes from supply
93%
fashion brands, retailers, designers and
chains with a low risk of contributing to
viscose producers to protect ancient and
deforestation and are made using the best
Home endangered forests) to incorporate best
manufacturing technologies available.
sustainable practices in the fashion and
textile industries. Traceability
Traceability is key to identifying risks in our
MAN-MADE CELLULOSIC FIBRES Our focus for sustainable raw materials
supply chain and to effectively check
(MMCF) is on our core materials: cotton, MMCF and
compliance, achieve our responsibly sourced
polyester, which together represent more
material targets and reduce our Scope 3
Target 2023/24
than 80% of our fibre mix. The preferred
emissions. Implementing full traceability is
100% MMCF from progress
raw material alternatives have a lower
complex and requires collaboration through
more responsible
47% environmental impact than their traditional the whole supply chain so this year we have
sources by
equivalents and consider various aspects
continued to develop our strategy and
2025/26.
of sustainability (such as farming practices,
collaborate with our partners.
renewable resources use and deforestation
risk) based on industry-recognised data.
Our Sustainability Academy supports
colleagues to drive change through raw
material selection.
Read more on page 22
M&S COLLECTION
Recycled Thermowarmth™
1 T his data is subject to a discrete assurance process
Quilted Jacket (T495126) £35
linked to our financing and is scheduled to be
published in autumn 2024.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 18
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING CONTINUED
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
FOCUS FOR 2024/25 PIONEERING TRACEABIITY WITH TEXTILE
Going forward we are focusing on including Be tt er C o tt on Ge nesis
more next-generation fibres in our MMCF mix.
Additionally, we continue to work towards
getting to 100% responsibly sourced cotton
Better Cotton is a longstanding M&S With this successful first pilot, we are now Using Textile Genesis, a new traceability
(Better Cotton, organic or recycled-certified)
partner. We joined as a pioneer member preparing our supply chain and extending platform that ensures authenticity and
and 100% responsibly sourced polyester
back in 2009 and since then, we have our mapping exercise to facilitate scaling provenance of sustainable textiles, we
(verified recycled) across Clothing & Home.
supported Better Cotton’s mission to help traceable Better Cotton in the future, and tracked more than 12m garments made
cotton communities survive and thrive, progressively onboard more suppliers to of MMCF across our supply chain, from
while protecting and restoring the this new chain of custody model. fibre mills up to M&S in 2023/24. We have
environment. since increased the scope of sustainable
textile traceability to all remaining
With over one fifth of the world’s cotton
MMCF, and added recycled polyester
now grown under the Better Cotton
and we aim to systematically trace all
standard, we believe it is the right time to
preferred viscose, lyocell, modal and
work with our supply chain to embed
polyester fibres we source by the end of
traceability requirements in how this
2024/25.
cotton is traded within the industry. Since
2021, we have been working with Better As well as providing us with full visibility
Cotton and other brand members through of our supply chain, Textile Genesis allows
the Traceability Panel, to set up the basis us to strengthen our compliance checks.
of traceability for Better Cotton.
In 2023/24, we ran a pilot in our Indian
supply chain to trace Better Cotton from
its region of origin up to each stage of its
transformation process and into our UK
stores. The traceability journey started at
the ginner (when cotton fibre is separated
from the seeds) close to the fields in
Maharashtra; to the northern region of
Himachal Pradesh for spinning; garment
manufacturing in Delhi; and finally, our
stores in the UK. This project gave us
invaluable learnings on all suppliers’
perspectives and input on how to scale
Better Cotton traceability throughout our
supply chain, and we have shared our
feedback with the Traceability Panel.
Image: M&S Traceable
Cotton Blouse
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 19
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING
In 2023/24, we made great Through Manufacture 2030, we have our six key asks and the output is that
FOOD
FOOD better visibility of how our top supply chain suppliers have visibility of our plans and
progress in deepening our
partners are meeting our “six key asks” expectations for the year ahead. We will
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR
knowledge of how our supply on the environment. This includes over continue to target areas where our supply
2023/24
150 suppliers which cover over 50% of our chain partners need the most support.
chain partners make the
Manufacture 2030
food supplier emissions.
products we sell. The challenges This year, we started working with LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
Manufacture 2030 to track the progress of FOCUS FOR 2024/25
in reducing their carbon
UK grocery retailers partner with
our supply chain partners in tackling
We have learned that most of our supply
Manufacture 2030 – Manufacture 2030
emissions are significant. We are environmental issues. Manufacture 2030 is a
chain partners have a food waste plan,
digital collaboration platform that brings
using innovation and the Supporting our supply chain partners Scope 1 & 2 emissions targets, commitments
together 10 major UK grocery retailers to
In 2023, we held four Supplier Exchange around deforestation and conversion-free
strength of our supply chain
collect supply chain partners’ environmental
events, bringing together over 100 supply soy (where relevant), and some renewable
partner relationships and performance information in one annual
chain partner representatives and providing energy procurement.
survey, giving them access to tools,
collaborations, to provide a forum for peer-to-peer and expert-led
knowledge and resources that support However, fewer supply chain partners have
knowledge sharing. Recent events focused
training and access to performance improvements. Scope 3 emissions targets and our supply
on environmental risk assessment, product
chain partners face significant work to
decarbonisation programmes. carbon footprinting, renewable energy and
achieve our key asks. We are focusing our
sustainable water management. The key
energy on these areas that are difficult
purpose of the event is to engage suppliers
to tackle.
on the risks and opportunities in relation to
FOOTPRINTING OUR PRODUCTS WITH
OUR SIX KEY ASKS FOR SUPPLIERS
Mondra 1. Set a science-based, 2040 net zero
target and roadmap for Scope 1, 2
and 3 emissions.
2. Purchase 100% renewable electricity.
In 2022/23, we began working with Mondra, an Going forward, we will trial using this data to
3. Purchase verified deforestation and
environmental product footprinting platform inform decision-making at the raw material,
conversion-free animal feed.
and Innovate UK grant-funded pilot, to model product and product-range levels. In parallel,
the carbon footprint of a selected sample of we will work with our supply chain partners to 4. Focus on packaging quality,
our products and explore opportunities for ensure their primary data is as representative innovation and sustainability, and
decarbonisation. We have successfully as possible, developing a common remove plastic where possible.
modelled the carbon footprint of over 5,000 understanding of the sustainable impact
5. Implement a food waste
M&S products across the Foodhall, giving us of their products.
redistribution plan.
new insights into our GHG emissions at every
6. Implement our Human Rights
stage of the supply chain. www.mondra.com/coalition
Standard, including Worker Voice and
Human Rights Due Diligence.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 20
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING CONTINUED
Over the past five years, we have deployed In 2024, we published a new version of our
CLOTHING & HOME
TARGETS the Higg FEM across our supply chain. In Environment and Chemical Policy (ECP),
C&H
C&H
2023, we invited our top 94% (by cost value) which summarises the environmental
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR
of suppliers at Tier 1, and all our mills at Tier compliance requirements of our supplier
2023/24
2, to complete the module. We encourage facilities. The guidance in our updated ECP
MANUFACTURING EMISSIONS The manufacture of products and materials
verification of the module to allow us to fully aligns with the structure of the Higg
NET
REDUCTION ZERO by our suppliers produces around half of our
obtain assured data, and have achieved FEM and Zero Discharge of Hazardous
Clothing & Home product emissions.
verification levels of 77% at Tier 1 and 86% at Chemicals (ZDHC) guidelines and explains
Target 2023/24
Tier 2. minimum expectations and best practices
50% of invited progress
See chart on page 12. across our environmental metrics.
suppliers verify
77%
their Higg FEM For more details about our responsible
Fabric dyeing and finishing (Tier 2) is an
(Facility chemical management strategy, visit our
of supply chain emissions hotspot, as our suppliers’ factory
Environmental website
partners verified processes are energy and heat intensive,
Module) 2022.
their assessment using a mix of fuel sources to generate direct
at Tier 1 heat and steam.
To drive supply chain decarbonisation, we SUPPLY CHAIN PARTNER FACILITIES COMPLETING HIGG FEM
2023/24
collaborate with other brands and industry Self-assessed Verified
progress
partners as members of Cascale (formerly
86%
the Sustainable Apparel Coalition). We are
Tier 1: Finished product facilities Tier 2: Material producers
driving adoption of the Higg Index, the
358
of supply chain
sustainability assessment tool that 344
partners verified 286
standardises how our suppliers measure and
their assessment 226
evaluate the environmental performance of
at Tier 2 their facilities. The Higg FEM is the 48 143
cornerstone of our supplier programme.
15
This annual assessment collects primary 108 103 112 105 65 56
supplier data to paint a clear picture of a 5 18 37
facility’s environmental impacts. Every stage
2020 2021 2022 2023 2020 2021 2022 2023
of the production process is captured
through this tool – from water use to waste
management, to chemical and energy use,
SUPPLY CHAIN PARTNER FACILITIES COMPLETING HIGG FEM VERIFICATION (%)
which we can then use to identify emissions
hotspots, develop insights into the Tier 1: Finished product facilities Tier 2: Material producers
environmental performance of our suppliers
and prioritise actions to contribute to our net
2020 31% 2020 75%
zero targets.
2021 58% 2021 78%
2022 72% 2022 86%
2023 77% 2023 86%
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 21
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING CONTINUED
In 2023/24, we focused on improving our LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
understanding of assessment metrics FOCUS FOR 2024/25
UPSKILLING COLLEAGUES THROUGH OUR
among our suppliers through training and
This year, our focus is to use the data we
Sust a i na bi li t y Aca demy
engagement. We provided in-person training
are receiving through the Higg FEM to work
for over 350 facilities in five of our main
with suppliers on action plans so they can
manufacturing countries. Our regional
progress towards their reduction targets.
sustainability teams also engaged directly
We will engage more suppliers with the
with key supply chain partners to evaluate The Sustainability Academy is a training – An introduction into circular design,
Apparel Impact Institute’s (Aii) Carbon
their responses, check data accuracy and use programme aimed at improving Clothing standards and certification.
Leadership Programme.
the assessment insights to develop facility & Home colleagues’ understanding of M&S – Sustainable manufacturing and the
improvement plans. sustainability goals and ethical trade environmental impacts of
standards. This provides a deeper
manufacturing textiles (in particular
understanding of the context beyond
supporting suppliers to help them
our policies.
reduce emissions and improve on
chemical management).
It equips colleagues with the knowledge
and tools needed to improve engagement – Ethical trade modules outlining the
internally and support their decision- Universal Declaration of Human Rights
making process. This includes offering an and M&S’ approach to responsible
in-depth session on: sourcing (including policies, factory
REDUCING SUPPLIER
auditing, monitoring and worker impact
– Our core raw materials (cotton, polyester
em issi ons programmes).
and MMCF, animal-derived fibres).
This year, 133 colleagues from across our
product teams attended the training.
Access to Apparel Impact Institute’s (Aii)
Carbon Leadership Programme is a key
part of our supplier engagement, focused
on high-volume facilities. The programme
can help deliver an average 30% reduction
in facility emissions on completion. The
programme involves an in-depth carbon
assessment, identifying carbon reduction
opportunities and undertaking carbon
reduction target setting. An action plan will
focus on applying technical solutions to
accelerate decarbonisation through
engineering works, which improve energy
efficiency, reduce heat loss and promote
heat recovery. Supply chain partners will
also gain a better understanding of where
it is feasible to convert to lower carbon
fuels and access renewable energy.
50 of our top volume fabric suppliers are
already engaged and benefitting from
this programme.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 22
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
WASTE & CIRCULARITY
Resources are limited so at Soft plastics collection
FOOD
TARGETS Where possible, we design our packaging for
M&S our approach is to prevent, FOOD
FOOD
recycling at home. However, some materials
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR
remove, reduce and recycle have no household recyclable alternative
2023/24
yet, and are necessary to protect the product
and we put that into place as
FOOD WASTE Plastic reduction
NET to maintain freshness, quality and shelf life.
much as we can across our ZERO Packaging is fundamental to delivering our
Most UK household recycling collections
products to customers with the quality they
supply chain. cannot accept soft plastics as part of
Target 2023/24 expect from M&S. We continue to innovate
kerbside recycling. We provide collection
Food waste progress with new programmes to reduce plastic
bins in over 500 stores for our customers to
Packaging plays a key role across M&S reduced by 50% by across our stores and provide circular
44% deposit any brand of soft plastic and avoid
and reducing packaging and minimising 2030 against packaging systems, as well as protecting
putting more plastic into general waste. This
all forms of waste, including food waste, 2017/18 baseline. food so that as much of it as possible goes
material is then sorted into different plastic
is a top priority for M&S and our customers. for human consumption. Of course, it is
polymers and is used to make PlastEcoWood
We are constantly thinking of ways to FOOD REDISTRIBUTION essential to protect product and reduce
products, including items such as picnic
NET
reduce plastic as well as being efficient and ZERO waste which can have a bigger carbon
benches and planters, which we donate to
minimising the waste we produce. We are also impact than the packaging itself.
schools and community centres. So far, we
cognisant of forthcoming regulation which
Target 2023/24 have donated 49 items to worthy causes.
In 2022/23, we set an ambitious target to
will have an impact on what we choose to do 100% of edible progress
remove 1bn units of plastic across our food
as a business versus what we do as part of surplus food be Reducing food waste
our regulatory requirements. redistributed by
85% hall by 2027/28 (from 2017/18).
While our food waste marginally grew this
year, we remain on track to meet our 50%
2025.
target and we have improved edible surplus
WE HAVE REMOVED
redistribution. 85% of edible surplus is
FOOD PLASTIC PACKAGING
NET 399 m redistributed – up from 79% in 2022/23 –
REDUCTION ZERO
with some stores consistently hitting over
Target 2023/24 plastic units since 2017/18. 90% each week in 2023/24 which has also
Remove 1bn units progress helped us reduce the food we send to
of plastic from the anaerobic digestion.
144m We set a target to remove another 75m units
packaging
of plastic in 2023/24, as part of our overall Actions we have taken this year to reduce
portfolio by the
plastic units 2027/28 target, which we have exceeded by our waste in stores include improvements
end of 2027/28
removing 144m units. to ordering and allocation systems.
from 2017/18.
Additionally, we provided freezers to a
Key initiatives in 2023/24 include:
further 120 stores and over 70% of our stores
– Replacing plastic carrier bags with paper bags. can now repurpose in-store bakery bread as
frozen garlic bread products. As 60% of the
– Replacing plastic with paper or card in our
UK’s food waste comes from our homes, it is
biscuits range.
crucial we help our customers waste less
– Moving our rice and grains range from
food at home. We are collaborating with the
plastic to paper packaging, which is fully
NGO WRAP, and other retailers on various
recyclable at home.
food waste initiatives, including moving milk
– Replacing plastic pads with paper in date codes from Use By to Best Before,
selected berries, rolling out our cardboard removing date codes on vegetables and
punnet across top-tier tomatoes, and allowing customers to use their judgement
rolling out reduced-plastic alternatives for on whether products are still fresh to eat. We
avocados, citrus, kiwis and mushrooms. are also simplifying our labelling instructions
on storage, open life statements and freezing.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 23
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
WASTE & CIRCULARITY CONTINUED
Refilled
We continue to roll-out our Refilled scheme
GROUNDBREAKING
across our stores. Customers can choose
RESEARCH ON from 10 own-brand homecare products,
including cleaning sprays, laundry
diffic ult
detergents, fabric conditioners and washing-
up liquids. Over 10,000 customers have
engaged with the scheme to date.
pla st ics
Coffee cups
This year, we became the first retailer to
roll-out a fully recyclable paper fibre cup
As part of our mission to advance and lid across our Cafés. Plastic lining in
recycling for difficult plastics such as conventional takeaway cups means they
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) film, cannot be easily recycled and M&S’ new cups
we are collaborating with The University and lids are made from 100% paper and
of Portsmouth and its Centre for certified plastic free which can be recycled
Enzyme Innovation team. Together, we in household and on the go. This change will
are researching the potential of applying remove over 20m units of plastic from our
enzymatic recycling techniques to food business.
hard-to-recycle plastics. Our
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
groundbreaking research has found that
FOCUS FOR 2024/25
the technology can be applied to PET
film, so it breaks it down into monomers We are developing a way to recycle the
which could then be rebuilt to create a residual material from our soft plastics
closed-loop material. In 2024/25, we are collection into products that we aim to sell in
looking to gain a greater understanding store. We plan to go live with these products
of how this process works on the following rigorous testing.
different types of PET film used in
We are also continuing our plastic reduction
our packaging.
and for food waste, we will continue our
RREECCOORRDD--BBRREEAAKKIINNGG
partnerships with FareShare and Neighbourly
as well as the Coronation Food Project. ffoooodd ddoonnaattioi nosn s
WWee hhaavvee ddoonnaatteedd oovveerr 7700 mm imllieoanl sm ine als in
ssuurrpplluuss ffoooodd ttoo mmoorree tthhaann 33,,000000 llooccaall UUKK
cchhaarriittiieess aanndd ccoommmmuunniittyy oorrggaanniissaattiioonnss
tthhrroouugghh oouurr lloonnggssttaannddiinngg ppaarrttnneerr
NNeeiigghhbboouurrllyy ssiinnccee wwee llaauunncchheedd oouurr
ppaarrttnneerrsshhiipp iinn 22001155.. 22002233//2244 wwaass aa rreeccoorrdd--
bbrreeaakkiinngg yyeeaarr wwiitthh oovveerr 2255 mm millieoanl meal
eeqquuiivvaalleennttss,, aanndd wwee eexxppeecctt ttoo ddoonnaattee oouurr
110000 mmiilllliioonntthh mmeeaall iinn 22002244//2255..
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 24
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
WASTE & CIRCULARITY CONTINUED
The accessories they make from the
CLOTHING & HOME
OUR APPROACH TO CIRCULARITY C&H collected waste can then be recycled again
with Handle at the end of life through our
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR
in-store collection boxes. Since June 2023,
2023/24
we have diverted over 1.5 tonnes of beauty
Innovative raw materials and manufacture
waste that would have otherwise ended up in
E
MOVE, REDUCE, REC
Y
W
re
e
d u
ar
c
e
e
c
c
o
a
l
r
l
b
ab
on
o r
e
a
m
tin
is
g
s i
a
o
c
n
r
s
o
a
ss
n d
o u
w
r
a
in
te
d
r
u stry to landfill, been incinerated or worse still lost in
3. R C L E “the system” due to contamination,
consumption across our supply chain
complexity of materials/components, size
through WRAP’s Textiles 2030 initiative. We
and colour of the materials.
participate in monthly working groups with
2.
PRODUCT DESIG
N other members, which focus on circularity, From the material we have collected since
closing the loop and improving data the scheme began, we are developing a
management to drive action. comb made with ~98% (the remaining ~2% is
the masterbatch that will be added to give
Product design
the comb its colour) beauty packaging waste
Durability is a fundamental aspect of our
from M&S. The comb will be available in
circular design principles. From inception to
stores from October 2024, and we are hoping
1. INNOVATIVE RAW production, we craft our items to meet our
it’s the first in a line of recycled accessories
MATERIALS & high durability standards, with versatile fits,
made from M&S Beauty waste packaging.
MANUFACTURE easy-to-care-for fabrics and detailed care
instructions, for example the “let me down” Take-back and resale
hems on our schoolwear. Our UK customers have given new life to over
4
. 36m items of clothing through the
T
A Remove, reduce, recycle Shwopping Programme since its launch in
K
We are innovating to reduce packaging and
E 2008, raising an estimated £23m for Oxfam.
-
B convert as many single-use plastic items
A
C (such as stickers) as possible to paper, In 2023/24, we expanded our longstanding
K
A collaborating with suppliers on solutions Shwopping Partnership with Oxfam for the
N
D that also maintain product quality. Back-to-School season with dedicated
R
E pre-loved school uniform Shwop boxes in
S
A LE In 2023/24, our Reuse and Recycling
over 200 stores across the UK. This scheme
Programme prevented 85m hangers going
encouraged customers to Shwop old school
to landfill. Through our Closed-Loop Hanger
uniform for a 20% off voucher on selected
Recycling Programme, we ask customers to
kids clothing with their Sparks card. The
leave hangers in store. We then send the
campaign generated over 5,200 QR code
1. Raw materials and manufacture 3. Remove, reduce, recycle hangers to a reuse centre, where they are scans with over 1,500 customers going on to
Adopting, innovating and investing in Removing single-use plastic, reducing sorted and forwarded to garment suppliers redeem the deal. 517kg of product was
more sustainable materials and non-essential packaging and optimising for reuse. Damaged hangers are recycled donated with 270kg going on to be in a
resource efficient manufacturing. all products for recycling. and made into new hangers. In 2023/24, we sellable condition.
switched our hanger recycled material to
2. Product design 4. Take-back and resale
polypropylene to increase its durability.
Applying circular design principles Sourcing and making products that are
from concept to production and in use. too good to waste, giving pre-loved In June 2023, M&S Beauty launched its
clothes a second chance at life. take-back scheme in partnership with Handle
Recycling. Handle specialises in recycling
beauty packaging and transforming it into
sellable products and accessories.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 25
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
WASTE & CIRCULARITY CONTINUED
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY-
FOCUS FOR 2024/25
CIRCULAR DESIGN PRINCIPLES TRAINING AND CAPTURING
This year in partnership with Oxfam, M&S is
CSF pa rt nershi p SUPPLY CHAIN
running a new trial which asks customers to
give their unwearable clothes a second wa st e
chance at life by donating them alongside
their pre-loved wearable clothing.
We have continued our collaboration with Starting with outerwear, bras and jersey
The new online trial will allow M&S customers
the Centre for Sustainable Fashion (CSF), a tops, we extended our programme in
We are collaborating with Reverse
to order a free postal donation bag, made
University of the Arts London research 2023/24 to offer mentorship to all product
Resources, an online platform that
from 100% recycled plastic, straight to their
centre based at London College of Fashion. categories. Throughout 2023/24, we held
matches textile waste at factory to
doorstep. Customers can then place their
mentoring sessions for our Design and
textile recyclers. In 2023/24, we
pre-loved second-hand clothing inside the Through our partnership with CSF, we have
Technology teams, providing an
undertook a baseline assessment to
bag – separating between those that are run training workshops to help our product
opportunity to share learnings about
map and analyse the textile waste of
wearable from unwearable – but equally too teams navigate complex circularity
textile circularity challenges.
more than 40 Tier 1 suppliers in
good to waste. This means clothing which concepts, such as extending garment
Bangladesh, China, India and Türkiye.
can’t be worn anymore because it is torn, lifetimes, recyclability, lower-impact
stained, stretched or broken can have a materials, and design techniques. Through this project we gained more of
second chance of life and be used for other an understanding of our production
means. Both Oxfam and M&S are working to waste, and it helped us identify potential
support the ACT “Textile Waste Project”, opportunities to consolidate different
which is led by the UK Fashion and Textile streams of pre-consumer textile waste
Association. and optimise the way they are collected
and processed. The next steps for us will
be to maximise the recycling potential of
nominated production sites, trial new
connections with recyclers and support
the growth of textile-to-textile recycling
on a wider scale.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 26
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
REDUCING CARBON IN OUR OPERATIONS
DRIVING OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES
Where we have direct control over carbon SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS Scope 1 Scope 2
emissions in our operations, we invest in
Location-based emissions (ktCO e)
projects across our store estate, warehouses 2
and logistics fleet to save energy and reduce
carbon and have made good progress this
year. To facilitate a clearer view of our
UK & ROI Property
operational carbon we have been using a
digital platform, Sphera, which can capture
16/17 100 276
operational carbon emissions on a site-by-
site basis.
22/23 77 119
This section reports on progress and activity
within our own operations that impact our 23/24 63 126
Scope 1 & 2 emissions.
Fleet
16/17 138
22/23 145
23/24 142
International
16/17 2 20
22/23 3 19
23/24 1 28
Total
16/17 240 296
22/23 225 137
23/24 207 154
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 27
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
REDUCING CARBON IN OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED
This year we reviewed our trading lighting
Targeted action
requirements following feedback through our
PROGRESS UK & ROI PROPERTY ESTATE Based on Sphera data, and working
colleague suggestion programme, “Straight
with external consultants, we have made
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR 2023/24 to Stuart”, This lead to a saving of 1.8m kWh in
improvements in store energy efficiency
In conjunction with CBRE, we mapped our energy consumption across the year.
by targeting the in-store environment. This
ZERO EMISSIONS PROPERTY carbon emissions on a store-by-store basis
NET includes installing energy-efficient fridge Rotation to newer stores
ZERO which allows us to make targeted decisions
doors in 30 of our Foodhalls to help regulate For all new stores, we have developed
to efficiently drive carbon reductions.
internal temperatures, which is expected to a standard specification for energy
Ongoing 2023/24
As a result, we have made good progress deliver 20-30% energy savings per store, efficiency, so that we continuously improve
commitment progress
in reducing Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions per year. the store estate as older stores are rotated.
Deliver a more
3% across our UK and Republic of Ireland (ROI) The specifications include stores being
efficient store Driving efficiencies across the estate
property estate in the last 12 months, despite 100% electric power (no gas) and full LED
estate. Over 2023/24, we invested in LED lighting
Reduction in an increase in grid carbon intensity this year. lighting. Each store will have the ability to
to cover 76% of our stores, voltage
energy usage The main drivers have been the further control electricity usage remotely and
optimisation and store controls, which
across UK & ROI roll-out of LED lighting, voltage optimisation, have voltage optimisation for incoming
has reduced emissions by 2,300 tCO e
property estate controls and introduction of fridge doors. 2 energy. Finally, there will be electric vehicle
and improved operational efficiencies.
These initiatives have driven cost savings, charging provisions for both rapid and
carbon reduction and energy efficiency. We ultra-fast charging.
have reduced our annual energy use by 3%
(24m kWh), which has resulted in the removal
of 6,000 tCO e from our estate.
2
This year, our efforts have focused on:
Measurement
Using Sphera to capture and report data, we
have been able to make targeted efficiency
decisions on a store-by-store basis. Over the
last year we have been able to closely track
the effect store rotation is having on carbon
reduction. In 2023/24, store rotation
contributed to a full year reduction of 1,850
tCO e. We will continue to align store rotation
2
to our plans to roll-out initiatives, reduce
energy consumption and carbon emissions
from the estate.
Image:
M&S Lakeside Thurrock
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 28
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
REDUCING CARBON IN OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
FOCUS FOR 2024/25 ACCELERATING STORE ROTATION TO DRIVE DOWN CARBON
In line with our strategy to deliver a store
Accelerating store rotation is one of nine strategic priorities that feed into our ESG strategy. Its ambition, through a focus on better
estate fit for the future, energy and carbon
store locations and more productive use of floorspace, is to drive carbon reduction while increasing sales, to create a store estate fit
inefficient stores are closing while those
for the future.
opening have the latest energy efficiency
initiatives. The store renewal programme
includes investment in energy initiatives as LIVERPOOL ONE LAKESIDE THURROCK BIRMINGHAM BULLRING
part of each project, with proven paybacks.
14% 61% 45% 16% 47% 32%
We will continue to work with external
partners and progress trials and innovation
sales sq ft. sales sq ft. sales sq ft.
on energy efficiency and carbon reduction to
inform further roll-out and investment.
In 2024/25, we will be making capital
investments that are expected to reduce
annual energy consumption by 4% and 4,700
tCO e reduction in Scope 1 & 2 emissions. As
2
the roll-out of these energy-saving initiatives
has covered the majority of our target stores,
focus will turn to new initiatives and
innovation. For example, development of the
trial to remove gas boilers and replace with
air sourced heat pumps.
One year into our EV partnership with BP
Pulse, we are collaborating on actively
progressing 80 sites. While our diverse
estate means we have encountered
challenges, we aim to achieve 340 charging
points in 2024/25, with a further 300 in
2025/26. We are also progressing the
benefits and opportunities of solar power
across our stores, offices and depots and
have plans to extend the 15 sites currently
44% 44% 10% 10% 28% 72%
using PV.
less energy less carbon less energy less carbon less energy less carbon
51% 38% 38%
less tCO e per £1m less tCO e per £1m less tCO e per £1m
2 2 2
sales sales sales
BASED ON FRIDGE REPLACEMENT AND FORECASTED ELECTRICITY AND GAS USAGE COMPARED
TO OLD STORE CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 29
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
REDUCING CARBON IN OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED
Due to the security situation in the Red Sea in LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
PROGRESS SUPPLY CHAIN LOGISTICS 2023/24, international freight has become FOCUS FOR 2024/25
increasingly difficult, with ships unable to
We will continue to implement cleaner burn
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR 2023/24
pass through the Suez Canal and taking two
fuels, collaborate with manufacturers to trial
In 2023/24, our own-operated logistics
weeks longer via the Cape of Good Hope.
lower emission vehicles and reduce our
ZERO EMISSIONS TRANSPORT fleet emitted 142k tCO e (equating to c.3%
NET 2 carbon emissions, while developing
ZERO of total Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions). We are Air-freight volumes have increased
technologies and infrastructure for
implementing supply chain and logistics to compensate to nearly 13% of total volume
widespread adoption throughout our
Ongoing 2023/24 initiatives to reduce carbon emissions across of product, resulting in our air-freight carbon
transport network.
commitment progress our transport, such as optimising the 35 new target being exceeded by 16,000 tCO e. We
2
Moving to low- bio-LNG vehicles in our Clothing & Home are incorporating the shipping delays into We will also continue to monitor the impacts
35
carbon logistics vehicle fleet, which we expect to result in our processes and aiming to minimise our of the Red Sea.
with reduced approximately 65-70% carbon savings reliance on air freight.
new bio-LNG
dependency on compared to diesel per truck.
vehicles
diesel and
Within our Food logistics business, we now
increased use of
3 have a forward-looking fleet since aquiring
new technologies
Gist. In 2023, Gist purchased 3 CNG vehicles
and cleaner fuels.
new bio-CNG and 3 fully electric rigid vehicles. We are
Contributing to
vehicles considering the potential of hydrogenated
cross-industry
vegetable oil (HVO) and hydrogen as a fuel
action through
3 option as well as undertaking driver training,
collaboration.
digital route planning and tyre technology
new fully electric to reduce emissions. By moving our drivers
vehicles onto smart route technology we have
improved fuel efficiency.
While the transport industry is expanding
net zero emission capabilities for smaller
goods vehicles, the larger Heavy Goods
Vehicle category is at an exploratory phase,
challenged by a lack of range and supporting
charging infrastructure.
We are working with vehicle manufacturers to
trial and test new sustainable technologies.
We are also collaborating within the industry
and lobbying for clearer government
initiatives to decarbonise the national network
and grid infrastructure to reach net zero,
through initiatives such as the BRC Climate
Roadmap and the Sustainable Logistics
Forum. We will continue to review and expand
our alternative technology options.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 30
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
REDUCING CARBON IN OUR OPERATIONS CONTINUED
TARGETS INTERNATIONAL
SHWOPPING SUCCESS IN THE
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR 2023/24
Middle Ea st
We continue to progress against our
INTERNATIONAL commitment to convert all stores to 100%
LED lighting across owned operations, with
Target 2023/24
Converting all our progress an additional 10 stores fitted in 2023/24, As part of the COP28 Sustainability There has been a positive response from
stores to 100% LED taking conversion to 78%. Week, we launched our Shwopping customers since launching Shwopping. In
78%
lighting across initiative in our Mall of Emirates’ store, 2024/25, we are rolling out our Shwopping
Scope 3 emissions
owned operations as well as highlighting our Plan A initiative further across the Middle East,
Air freight of fresh food is our single biggest
by 2025. commitments to customers, and added and have similar schemes planned for
source of emissions in the International
the Eat Well Sunflower seal for easy, Singapore and Malaysia.
business. To protect the quality and integrity
healthy food choices.
of the food products we sell to our
international customers, we make technical
adjustments to products we transport
through our “freeze-defrost” programme. In
GREEN INITIATIVES OF
2023/24, we used the M&S Plan A Accelerator
Fund to explore opportunities to introduce THE YEAR
new products into the programme and
Awa rd
maximise carbon savings.
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY –
FOCUS FOR 2024/25
We’re proud winners of the “Green
We have recently appointed a new Managing
Initiatives of the Year Award” at the 2023
Director (and ExCo member) for the
SAFEtitude Summit in India, hosted by
International business. In 2024/25, they will
Reliance Retail. This award recognises
be resetting the international strategy for
the impact of our sustainable building
growth and ensuring the ESG Strategy is
initiatives, which this year included
embedded in the reset.
energy audits at stores, e-waste
Our international business is subject to some collection drives, a “Switch it off” initiative,
of the same challenges from the Red Sea a campaign for World Water Day and
security situation. Air freight of fresh converting stores to LED lighting.
produce from suppliers to the UK and back
to international hubs is one aspect of the
ESG strategy that the International business
will need to review.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 31
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
SOCIAL
IN THIS SECTION
33 Animal welfare Image:
Cream Linen Double Breasted Suit Jacket
36 Ethical trade
(T153341D) £129
40 Healthier food
Blue Linen Suit (T153341/42T) £199
42 People
Pink Linen Suit (T153341/42T) £199
44 Community
Pure Linen Shirt (T252445M) £40
Marks and Spencer Group plc
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ANIMAL WELFARE
The responsible sourcing of This year we have maintained our
FOOD
commitment for all fresh chicken to be
raw materials includes setting FOOD
higher-welfare, slower-reared, British and
LOTS DONE - PROGRESS FOR
high standards on animal RSPCA Assured. We are also the only UK
2023/24
retailer to have converted our entire fresh
welfare. We strive to set the
Setting the standard across our
chicken offer to meet the Better Chicken
welfare standards for others Select Farms
Commitment.
All our M&S Select Farms must meet our
to follow, exceeding legislative
welfare standards, which exceed both We also maintained all EU-sourced pork used
requirements and industry industry practice and legislation, to produce for EU charcuterie production coming from
practice, and we stock the M&S Food. farms operating free farrowing breeding
systems and higher welfare finishing units
largest range of RSPCA
and always pay our farmers a fair price, based
Go to our M&S Food Interactive Map
Assured products. on our longstanding M&S Milk Pledge.
To ensure we source from farms we know and In 2023/24, we were the only UK retailer to
trust, each is assessed as part of the M&S achieve Tier 1 in Crustacean Compassion’s
TARGETS Select Farm Programme. Our Outcome Industry Benchmark on Decapod Crustacean
FOOD Measure Programme is run by FAI Farms, who Welfare. We also retained our leadership
are an independent specialist animal welfare position on the Business Benchmark on Farm
consultancy group. It collects detailed Animal Welfare, despite significant changes
ANIMAL WELFARE
welfare metrics across all livestock and fin to the assessment scope (Tier 1 2013-2022
STANDARDS
fish species and reports on them every year, and Tier 2 in 2023).
Ongoing 2023/24 which we use to build improvement plans
commitment progress and publish on our website.
Maintain No. 1
#1 Maintaining the highest animal
ranking among
welfare standards
retailers, with the
We stock the largest range of RSPCA Assured
highest number of
species in M&S products. This range includes all our fresh
Food product milk, veal, farmed salmon and trout, our UK
range adhering to shell and ingredient egg, our UK pork, and
RSPCA Assured our industry-leading Oakham Gold chicken.
certification. RSPCA standards prioritise welfare across
each animal’s lifecycle, from birth to
slaughter. They require enriched living
conditions, where animals can display
natural behaviours and have a good quality
of life. We are committed to offering more
RSPCA Assured products than any other
retailer across our retail product ranges,
including our “Remarksable Value” range.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 33
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ANIMAL WELFARE CONTINUED
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY -
FOCUS FOR 2024/25 M&S
We are working with the RSPCA to explore an Livest oc k H ub
extension to the standard to cover a greater
number of species, such as sea bass, where
M&S Select Farms already demonstrate
leading welfare standards. We are committed to tracking and
transparently reporting on our animal
We are also working to further progress
welfare performance, using welfare
humane catch and kill for all our lobster, crab
outcome metrics that describe how an
and the majority of our white leg shrimp
animal has experienced the environment in
supply and are also extending a successful
which it has lived. We collect these metrics
by-catch reduction project in our Scottish
on-farm and at the abattoir to provide us
langoustine and haddock fisheries. By-catch
with an objective tool to measure animal
is when fish or other marine species are
welfare, irrespective of the production
caught unintentionally while trying to catch
system, breed and climate.
another type of fish.
All our fresh meat, farmed fin fish, poultry,
All farms that supply M&S must have an
fresh milk and laying hens supplier partners
industry leading M&S Select Farm
regularly submit welfare data via the M&S
Assessment undertaken by an approved
Livestock Hub. We use the data to
Select Farm Assessor, trained to our
benchmark farming systems, locate best
requirements by FSIG, an independent audit
practice and identify areas of improvement,
company. In 2024/25, we will launch a Select
as well as track continuous improvement.
Farms Assessments app to enable real-time
assessments on-farm and join up Over 2023/24, we invested in a leading
assessment results, enhancing transparency Outcome Measure Programme,
and integrity for M&S Select Farms. independently run by Food Animal Initiative
Functioning both on and offline, the app (FAI) Farms, to ensure we continue to report
provides a user-friendly assessment on animal welfare. We regularly review our
interface for confirming compliance with outcome measure data with suppliers, and
M&S Select Farm standards. The new app will as part of our quarterly Governance process.
also help to standardise our different Select
Farm assessments.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 34
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ANIMAL WELFARE CONTINUED
We are also making progress with merino
TARGETS CLOTHING & HOME wool conversion, with all our pure merino DEFORESTATION-FREE
C&H
C&H
products made of Responsible Wool
le a t her
To make high-quality and durable
Standard-certified fibres. All cashmere in our
clothing products, we use the best
WOOL pure cashmere products remained certified
raw materials available, including by the Sustainable Fibre Alliance this year,
Target 2023/24
animal-derived fibres such as wool, which ensures high animal welfare standards In June 2023, we were among the first
50% of wool from progress
and minimal impact on the environment and
more sustainable mohair and cashmere. We strive to retail brands to commit to source bovine
29% safeguards the livelihoods of herder
leather from a deforestation-free supply
sources by 2025, use certified fibres to ensure high
communities in Mongolia and China.
chain by 2030, and signed the
and 100% by
animal welfare standards and
Deforestation-Free Call to Action for
2030/31. LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY -
sustainable practices.
Leather, in partnership with our partners
FOCUS FOR 2024/25
Textile Exchange, the Leather Working
LEATHER This year, our focus is on further progress
Group (LWG) and WWF.
LOTS DONE - PROGRESS FOR 2023/24
towards responsibly sourced animal fibres,
Target 2023/24
100% of our progress All the feather and down used in our continuing our conversion efforts towards The global leather supply chain is
leather sourced products are either recycled or certified our 2030 target. Having signed the complex, but through industry-wide
from Leather 100% to recognised animal welfare standards Deforestation-Free Call to Action for Leather, collaboration, we aim to build
Working Group including International Down and Feather we will accelerate our efforts, starting with a traceability at scale, and together
(LWG)-certified Finishing tanneries Laboratory (IDFL) Down Standard, the new internal roadmap to achieve our identify and address issues related to
finishing tanneries Responsible Down Standard and the deforestation-free 2030 commitment, and deforestation. Over 2023/24, we worked
by 2030. Traceable Down Standard. Our policy on increasing engagement with our supply chain. with third-party partners to assess risks
mohair fibre states that we only source and develop a tailored action plan to
fibre certified by the Responsible meet this 2030 commitment.
Mohair Standard.
In 2023/24 we removed our ban on alpaca
yarn. We value the quality of this fibre as
well as the traditional know-how linked to
its production and believe the Responsible
Alpaca Standard (RAS) gives us the
confidence we need to start sourcing this
fibre again, so going forward the use of this
certification will be the minimum standard
for all alpaca fibre in M&S products.
We regularly update our Clothing & Home
Animal Welfare Policy to reflect industry
best practice and this year, we have adopted
the commonly agreed five domains of animal
welfare (nutrition, physical environment,
health, behavioural interactions and
AUTOGRAPH
mental state).
Pure Leather
Cropped
Blazer
(T504089T)
£179
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 35
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ETHICAL TRADE
OUR COMMITMENT We work collaboratively to address
systematic issues such as wages, as well as
Our mission to deliver exceptional products OUR SALIENT HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES
through our supply chain partners to address
as a trusted brand goes together with doing
local issues, such as working conditions. We
the right thing. This means treating everyone
also seek to enhance the lives of the people
fairly and with respect, and taking a zero-
in our supply chain through targeted
tolerance stance on discrimination and
programmes aligned to our salient issues.
u
re
n
s
a
p
c
o
c
n
e
s
p
ib
ta
il
b
it
l
i
e
e s
b
t
e
o
h a
id
v
e
io
n
u
ti
r
f
.
y
W
, p
e
r
h
e
a
v
v
e
e
n t, mitigate
Read about our governance on page 46 N G
PRINCIPLES: PROTECT, RESPECT,
A N
a
w
n
e
d
t r
r
e
e
a
m
t
e
su
d
p
ia
p
te
ly
h
c
u
h
m
ai
a
n
n
p
r
a
ig
rt
h
n
t
e
s
r
r
s
i s
f
k
a
s
ir
,
l
e
y
n
a
s
n
u
d
r i
a
n
s
g
N
G
UI
DI
POLICY AND STANDARDS
D
R
E M
E
U D
partners in our success.
Our salient human rights issues
H
E Y
F
T R
We operate in a diverse range of geographies, Y A
B SALIENT ISSUES M
Global economic difficulties, devaluation consumer cultures and regulatory D E
E W
of currencies, financial and political crises, environments. It is important we understand D O
U I R
K
and high inflation have had a direct impact where our operations and sourcing impact G
on our supply chains, but our strong adversely on individuals, so we can prioritise
supplier relationships, collaboration and our efforts in these areas.
Discrimination Forced labour Freedom of
implementation of industry initiatives mean
and gender association
In 2023, we reviewed our most important
we have been able to support factories and
(salient) human rights issues at a country and S
workers through these challenging times. E S
I E
sector level, with input from internal and T I
I T D
L I D
Regional issues include minimum wage external stakeholders. Our updated salient B I B I L U E U E
r f e a v c i t e o w ry s i c n lo B s a u n re g s la , a d n e d sh h l u e m ad a i n n i g ta t r o ia u n n c re ri s s t e a s n in d issues are in the diagram on the right. A P A A P A He s a a l f t e h t a y nd exp L l a o b it o a u t r io n W i a n g c e o s m a e nd Working hours D I L D I L
Go to our approach to forced labour in C C G I G I
the aftermath of the earthquake in Türkiye G G EE
our Modern Slavery Statement N N WATCHING ISSUES NN
resulting in labour shortages. I I D CC
D E
L E
L I
The M&S Global Sourcing Principles set I U U B
OUR GROUP POLICIES AND B
out our minimum requirements and
PROCEDURES
expectations of how we and our supply chain
partners conduct business to uphold human Our group policies relating to Child labour Water and Loss of
sanitation livelihoods
rights, along with labour, environmental, responsible sourcing are signed off by
ethical and legal requirements in their own our directors. We continually review and
operations and their supply chains. We are develop our policies with input from
committed to respecting internationally in-house experts, suppliers and external
recognised human rights and the principles stakeholders. Secure work Land rights
a
P
n
ri
d
n c
g
ip
ui
l
d
e
a
s
n
o
c
n
e
B
in
u s
t
i
h
n
e
e
U
ss
n
a
it
n
e
d
d
H
N
u
a
m
tio
a
n
n
s
R
G
ig
u
h
id
ts
in g –
–
M
M
&
&
S
S
G
Co
lo
d
b
e
a
o
l S
f
o
C
u
o
r
n
c
d
in
u
g
c t
Principles C O LLABORATION
AND
PARTNERS
HI P S
(UNGPs). We also support the OECD
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. – M&S Human Rights Policy
– M&S Child Labour Procedure
We continually review and improve our
practices to ensure we are upholding our – M&S Grievance Procedure for Clothing,
standards and respecting the human rights Home and Food Supply Chains
[
of the people behind our products.
Go to our approach to ethical trade on
our website
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 36
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ETHICAL TRADE CONTINUED
OUR SALIENT ISSUES Discrimination and women’s rights partners play a key role in helping us to
CLOTHING & HOME
We are committed to inclusion and diversity achieve this. Our Modern Slavery Statement
C&H Health and safety
and believe everyone should feel comfortable sets out our approach to preventing slavery
OUR APPROACH Our Global Sourcing Principles set clear
to come to work and be themselves. and human trafficking in our operations and
requirements that supply chain partners
In Clothing & Home, our approach to ethical
We have a zero tolerance stance on supply chains.
must provide a healthy, safe and clean
sourcing is based on robust risk assessment.
discrimination and unacceptable behaviour.
workplace for all workers.
Through our ethical compliance monitoring
Find our Modern Slavery Statement here
programme, approved independent third-party
– As part of our ongoing commitment to
Read more on diversity, equity & inclusion
companies ethically audit our suppliers’
working conditions in our supply base, we
on page 43
factories every year against our Global Sourcing Working hours and fair wages
were a signatory of the original Accord on
Principles and international standards. Contracts, wages and benefits are among
Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh
the most important conditions of work,
(2013), which aimed for sustainable
Our specialist local sourcing office Compliance
GEAR BANGLADESH AND SRI LANKA according to the ILO. All workers are entitled
improvements to working conditions in the
teams in Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Hong
Bangladesh garment industry. We have Gender Equality and Returns (GEAR) is to fair and equal compensation that at least
Kong, India, Sri Lanka, Türkiye and Vietnam
since signed the subsequent Transition an initiative of Better Work, which aims meets the legal minimum wage, industry
manage the ethical compliance monitoring
Accord (2018), the Interim Agreement to promote women’s career progression standards, or negotiated wages. In 2023/24,
programme, including grading, escalation and
(2021), the International Accord for Health opportunities by equipping them with we:
audit follow-up activity. We expect our suppliers
and Safety in the Textile and Garment technical, managerial and leadership
to address any non-compliance and implement – commissioned research with factories in
Industry (2021, 2023) and the Pakistan skills. In 2023/24, we launched GEAR in
remediation plans. China, to better understand and address
Accord on Health and Safety in the Textile 11 factories in Bangladesh and Sri Lanka,
root causes of excessive overtime. The
We pair our compliance monitoring with worker and Garment Industry (2023). employing over 21,000 workers.
project provided training and tools to the
impact projects to address our salient issues and
– In 2023/24 we supported a supplier factory factory to support it to manage working
create positive change for workers. We also
in China to implement the HERhealth hours more effectively. Results included:
collaborate with relevant stakeholders to use
project. The project ran for 18 months, MARKS & START SRI LANKA
our combined influence to maximise that – a 35% reduction in daily overtime.
training 30 peer health educators, who
Marks & Start aims to support people
change. M&S is a member of the Ethical Trading
then provided women’s health education – a 27% reduction in rest day work.
who face barriers to employment,
Initiative (ETI), RISE (Reimagining Industry to
for female workers, including on family
offering training and opportunities for
Support Equality) and the International Labor – a 51% reduction in worker dissatisfaction
planning, mental health, nutrition and
inclusion into work. Marks & Start started
Organisation (ILO) Better Work Programme. relating to working hours.
exercise. This programme reached over
in 2004, and has successfully supported
LOTS DONE - PROGRESS FOR 2023/24 700 workers. more than 29,000 people around the – updating our wage ladders for our eight
– Implemented our due diligence – In 2023/24 in Cambodia, five of our world, offering skills and training that key sourcing countries, this highlights
programme for our Tier 2 suppliers, factories participated in the Commuting lead to the opportunity of a job. comparisons against a range of wage
through a combination of third-party Safety for Cambodian Workers Sandamali is one of our Marks & Start benchmarks.
audits/assessments and M&S ethical programme, funded by the US Agency for beneficiaries in Sri Lanka. – publicly supporting the process in
compliance visits. International Development (USAID). This Bangladesh, of the three-way negotiation
project focused on improving commuting See the story here between the Unions, the Government
– Commissioned research and investigations
safety for Cambodian workers through Wages Board and the Employers’
into key salient risks to identify
stakeholder collaboration, training and Associations relating to the minimum
opportunities to strengthen our policies
and processes. best-practice sharing, factory road safety Freely chosen employment wage increase in 2023 and the main points
working groups, and engagement with We recognise that modern slavery is a of the ETI letter written together with
– Launched the Everyone’s Business app, so
trade unions and driver associations. growing global issue, and we understand our amfori, Fair Labor Association (FLA), Fair
M&S colleagues can participate in factory
responsibility to prevent, mitigate and Wear and Mondiaal FNV, to Bangladesh’s
due diligence and report visit observations
remediate in accordance with the Minimum Wage Board.
remotely.
responsibility to respect human rights under
– Continued capacity building programmes
the UNGPs. Our colleagues and supply chain
throughout our supply chain.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 37
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ETHICAL TRADE CONTINUED
Freedom of association Together with relevant stakeholders, In 2023/24, we revised our Human Rights
FOOD
We aim to ensure that everyone in our supply including our suppliers and other retailers, Standard to make it easier for our suppliers
FOOD
chain has a voice and encourage a culture of we use our combined influence to protect to understand our requirements. Audit
OUR APPROACH
open dialogue and continuous improvement. workers and enhance livelihoods in food remains a core component of our Standard
Our most salient issues in Foods mirror those
Freedom of association, i.e. the right of supply chains. M&S is a member of the ETI; and managing risk in our supply chain,
in Clothing & Home (see Figure on page 36),
workers and employers to form and join Food Network for Ethical Trade (where we however we are driving our “beyond audit”
but can look different in practice given the
organisations of their own choosing, is an co-chair the Climate & Human Rights approach through our Worker Voice and
nature of the food supply chain. We structure
integral part of a free and open society. working group); Spanish Ethical Trade Human Rights Due Diligence Programmes
our Food human rights strategy in two parts,
Workers’ rights to freedom of association Forums (where we are a Governing Board with our supply chain partners. We recognise
to protect workers in our supply chains from
must be respected. We promote workplace member); Sea Alliance (where we sit on the the limitations of an audit-only approach,
potential risk and to enhance livelihoods in
representation by: Steering Committee); and the Seasonal and engage directly with workers in our
key global supply chains:
Worker Scheme Taskforce (Governance supply chain (worker voice) and build
– including information on our interactive
Committee). In addition, we sponsor key suppliers’ capacity to address human rights
– Protect – ensuring we have a robust
map, for transparency where suppliers
initiatives such as Stronger Together; the risks further down the supply chain (human
compliance programme with Tier 1
have a worker committee and/or trade
Responsible Recruitment Toolkit; Unseen rights due diligence).
suppliers and working on challenging
union.
(the Modern Slavery Helpline); and MSIN (the
industry-wide issues, such as modern
Worker voice
– verification during our ethical compliance Modern Slavery Intelligence Network).
slavery.
2023/24 was the third year of our Worker
monitoring programme.
– Enhance – developing programmes to Protect Voice Programme, which builds on our
– engaging with external stakeholders,
build livelihoods in our supply chain, Detailed information on our workstreams, compliance programme and ensures we hear
including unions, on a case-by-case basis
through which we can engage customers including relevant memberships and directly from workers in our supply chain
if allegations/issues are raised relating to
on issues they care about. programmes, is in our Modern Slavery across UK & ROI. Over the past year, 361 of
freedom of association, to resolve issues
Statement. our sites took part in a joint survey with our
with the factory.
delivery partner nGaje, with 40,807
participants across the M&S supply chain
(Tier 1 UK & ROI) sharing their views.
FAIRTRADE
Human rights due diligence
Sec uri ng a be tt er de a l Aligned to volume and risk, 48 of our key
strategic supply chain partners took part in
the third year of our Human Rights Due
Diligence Review Programme in 2023/24 to
understand the salient human rights issues
In 2023/24, we were shortlisted as approach for Assamese tea to address
in the supply chain and their activity
Fairtrade’s Global Partner of the Year, and specific challenges in the region.
underway or planned to address them. We
we continue to support producers through
also delivered bespoke human rights training
Fairtrade Premium which increased in 2023
Further detail is available here
for our Food technical team.
to £2.2m across all M&S Fairtrade sales.
In 2023, we also retained our No. 1 position We were also the first UK retailer to fund Enhance
in UK retail for Fairtrade tea and coffee, the Fairtrade Child Labour Prevention and We collaborate with NGOs and Civil Society
with a 31% UK retailer market share of all Remediation programme in Ghana and Organisations, as well as multi-stakeholder
Fairtrade coffee and 48% of Fairtrade tea. Cote d’Ivoire in light of the risk of child initiatives, to deliver programmes that drive
£1.73m of our Fairtrade premium was from labour in cocoa supply chains in positive change for workers in our supply
sales of M&S Fairtrade tea and coffee West Africa. chains and enhance their livelihoods.
alone. We have continued to support
Fairtrade in developing an innovative
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 38
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ETHICAL TRADE CONTINUED
LIVING WAGES CUP OF AMBITION
for ba na na w orkers Em poweri ng
sm a llholder fa rms
In March 2023, we signed a commitment to In 2024/25, we will create our action plan to
close the living wage gap in our banana 2027, working closely within our banana
supply chain by the end of 2027. Over the supply chain, with other UK retailers and
past year, we have worked to better IDH. More information on the work across
We want to ensure that our coffee and tea northern Peru. Thanks to the mindset and
understand wages in our banana supply the industry is in the IDH joint annual
not only tastes good, but does good. In financial literacy skills she gained from the
chain through data provided by producers report
May 2023, we launched our “Cup of programme, Kely has invested in new
using the IDH Salary Matrix.
Ambition” fund. For every cup of tea or equipment and doubled her beehives,
coffee sold across our UK cafés, we donate growing her business and her family’s
1p to a programme that empowers our income. More bees mean more pollination
smallholder tea and coffee growers in Latin for her coffee crop, helping Kely to
America and Africa and their communities, increase her coffee harvest.
with training delivered by our
In 2024/25, we plan to roll-out the Cup of
implementation partner, Emerging
Ambition programme to our Kenyan tea
Leaders.
growers and tea and coffee producers in
Over the first six months of the other origins. Our roll-out in Kenya is part
programme, we delivered training to over of our action plan in response to the
500 farmers in three key tea and coffee Human Rights Impact Assessment of
origins: Peru, Brazil and Malawi. Kely Kenyan tea outlined in last year’s
(below), a Peruvian coffee famer, was one Sustainability Report.
of our first trainees. Before Cup of
Ambition training, she ran a small 100%
organic honey business, in addition to
producing coffee as part of the
Cooperative Frontera San Ignacio in
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 39
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
HEALTHIER FOOD
Health has never been so LOTS DONE - PROGRESS FOR 2023/24 We’re committed to helping our customers
TARGETS eat more plants by making meat-free options
NET high on the agenda for We take a responsible “no unnecessary
FOOD
ZERO more accessible and appealing and
ingredients” approach to M&S Food and
food businesses. Our latest providing innovative, great tasting plant-
continuously review our processes, listening
HEALTHIER FOOD Family Matters Index shows to customers and industry experts. Our based, vegan and vegetarian options in our
Foodhall. Over two-thirds of our food sales
industry-leading Additive Policy lists
Target 2023/24 that customer focus on healthy (tonnage) comes from fruit and vegetables,
additives we do not permit in M&S Food
70% of sales in our progress eating is a growing priority, with vegetarian and vegan products. This
and Drinks, which include monosodium
Food business from
replaces our existing sales-focused plant-
healthier products 69.8% half of consumers planning to glutamate, artificial colours, artificial
based metric, which we’ve achieved a year
flavourings and Aspartame. To further our
by the end of
eat more healthily in 2024. ahead of time and are now closing out. This
ambition of having the cleanest ingredients
2024/2025
reporting better reflects the healthy and
(tonnage). list, 70 additional additives were added to
sustainable behaviours we want to drive in
the exclusion list this year and work has
The definition of “healthy” is also evolving for
our customers’ baskets.
Target 2023/24 consumers, with trends such as high protein commenced to remove these.
33% of Remarksable progress and gut health influencing food choices. Communicating clearly to customers
Increasing healthier and more sustainable
products
designated Eat Well. 58% Our vision is to make it easy for customers choices for customers This year we increased our health
to make healthier choices, in whatever way communications to customers, including the
In response to changing health trends and
is relevant to them and their families. health content of our social media channels
personal dietary requirements, we have
Target 2023/24 and publishing our first “Health Guide” for
launched two new health benefit-led
Through our health strategy, we are
£75m sales of progress customers on topics such as gut health,
sub-brand food ranges called High Protein
developing innovative product ranges,
plant-based plant diversity and a balanced plate.
products by
£78m investing in our marketing to inspire healthy and Good Gut. Each range meets strict
nutritional criteria and prominent health
2024/25. food choices and prioritising health through Our Eat Well Sunflower logo signposts
claims. Over 50 new food products have
mechanisms including fresh market specials healthier choices, and can now be found on
been created within these ranges, and we
and Remarksable offers. the packaging of nearly 2,000 products.
have redeveloped a further 10 existing food
An M&S product only achieves the Eat Well
products to meet the brand guidelines.
health seal of approval if it fulfils evidence-
based, nutritional criteria informed by the
In January 2024, M&S launched a
Government’s Eat Well guide and developed
world-first collaboration with nutrition-
by our nutrition team, and is endorsed by the
science company ZOE, introducing the
British Nutrition Foundation.
M&S x ZOE kefir-based shot. For a nation
that does not consume the recommended
Fresh, healthy food at every price point
amount of fibre in our diets, the successful
Since 2020, we have increased our focus
M&S x ZOE product launch and health
on everyday trusted value and reduced
media campaign has made the topic of
multibuy promotions in our stores. We do
gut health more mainstream – we saw our
not run multibuy offers on products subject
highest ever sales of healthy products
to the Government’s restrictions for price
and health perception score following
promotions on products high in fat, sugar
the January launches and campaign.
and salt (HFSS), despite not yet being
required to do so.
The shot meets specific criteria: over five
billion live cultures from 14 different strains
of friendly bacteria, high fibre, a source of
calcium, contains colourful fruits and no
added sugar, sweetener or additives.
Image: M&S High Protein range
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 40
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
HEALTHIER FOOD CONTINUED
Our Remarksable products are price
benchmarked against key competitors and PROMOTING HEALTHY EATING
we’re committed to always having at least a third
wi t h t he FA
of our Remarksable products as Eat Well and are
consistently overachieving this, averaging over
50% being Eat Well, ensuring healthy and
affordable options
Through our Fresh Market Specials, we Our six-year partnership with the UK Our report findings show that 79% of Following the launch of our biggest health
consistently offer customers amazing value national football teams and their football parents claim their children are more likely campaign “Eat Well Play Well” in 2022, we
on a range of fruit and vegetables exclusively associations uses football to encourage to eat healthy food such as fresh fruit and increased advertising support for the
from trusted M&S Select Farms and these are families to make healthier food choices. vegetables if they think their favourite campaign on TV and radio and in-store
displayed prominently at the front of our football players ate them. We are proud to marketing in 2023, signposting customers
Our 2023/24 “Plate of the Nation” report
stores. be part of a sports sponsorship that to our Eat Well products.
discusses how the UK’s poor diet is
promotes positive healthy eating messages
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY - impacting families across the country. It By January 2024, awareness of our Eat Well
for children.
FOCUS FOR 2024/25 also sets out the position that we are taking health seal grew to 53% (from 44%), and
to help address the issues this raises, and Our Eat Well Play Well game plan features M&S is consistently recognised as the
We have set ourselves a new target to
make sure we are part of the solution. One our “food formations”, developed with the leading retailer for offering healthy choices.
continue growing sales of healthier foods to
of these commitments is education, Head of Men’s Performance Nutrition at the
70% (tonnage) by the end of 2024/25. We
showing how easy it is to make simple FA, to give insight on how to tailor daily
started this year on 68% and our activity so
healthy swaps and highlight healthy foods intake based on eating for energy, recovery
far has already delivered significant
to inspire children. or rest days.
progress, with more to do in the year to
come. Our definition for healthy sales
includes our Eat Well range, and other
credible healthier options with demonstrable
nutrition claims (e.g. reduced sugar), that
meet the government salt and calorie
targets.
As we continue to embed our ambitious
health strategy, we’ll be elevating our
existing High Protein and Good Gut health
brands even further and adding a new one to
the “health family” in the year ahead.
We’ll continue to focus on our health
communications and campaigns and uphold
our leading position on responsible
ingredient use. In the coming year, we’ll be
dialling up our existing “Ask the Nutritionist”
service to support more customers with their
nutrition queries and share common
questions.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 41
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
PEOPLE
Building a high-performance LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR 2023/24 We also launched Trusted Adult training for
WELLBEING
colleagues through our partnership with
“sleeves rolled up” culture to Since 2004, our Marks & Start employability
YoungMinds. Aimed at colleagues who
programme, which offers opportunities to
LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR 2023/24
make sure M&S is a place where interact with young people, this training
young people who face barriers to
M&S continues to invest in the wellbeing of
equips them with practical conversational
everyone can be themselves employment and are furthest from work, has
its colleagues and their families.
tools and insights for effective conversations
supported over 12,000 young people gain
and be their best is critical to
about mental health. Over 400 of our
work experience. We have donated over £10m We continued to celebrate our long
Reshaping M&S for Growth. colleagues have completed this training.
to The Prince’s Trust during our partnership. service colleagues, monitor engagement
and continually review culture and
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY -
This year, M&S has supported 693
operating processes to ensure everyone
FOCUS FOR 2024/25
placements through the programme, with
at M&S feels welcome.
590 of those taking place as part of a Following the successful roll-out of
EMPLOYABILITY
partnership with The Prince’s Trust. The This year, we launched several new training wellbeing training to store managers this
programme welcomed many from diverse initiatives to equip managers to be able to year, 4,800 team managers in stores will
MARKS & START backgrounds, with 26% from ethnic minorities better support their teams, including complete the training in 2024/25, with a
and 29% having a declared disability. Our wellbeing training which has been completed wider business roll-out later in the year.
Marks & Start programme has a strong focus by all 600 of our store managers.
Ongoing 2023/24
commitment progress on mental wellbeing to support people
Marks & Start is our coming into the workplace. Each apprentice
693
longstanding is paired with a M&S “buddy” colleague
employability in-store who supports the young person
Marks & Start work
programme while they are on placement. We have also
We regularly review our benefits offering, working closely with our Business Involvement
placement started.
that supports introduced a “Supporting you at M&S”
Group (BIG) and listening to our colleagues’ priorities so that our benefits reflect our
individuals who are workshop for those on the programme, and
colleagues’ needs. Our wellbeing benefits are grouped under core themes, supported by
disadvantaged or 81%
provide access to our support networks.
external partners, specialists and charities:
underrepresented
in the modern of individuals This year, we won the Employment Impact
workplace gain completing work Award at The Prince’s Trust Partnership Healthy lifestyles Healthy finances Supporting our colleagues
access to vital work placements were Awards in recognition for the contribution of
Free GP access and Pensions and savings Free expert support,
experience and offered an our Marks & Start programme in helping
discounted health support schemes, life insurance counselling, and
training. employment young people into work.
for colleagues and their therapies for colleagues
contract at M&S.
LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY - families and their families
FOCUS FOR 2024/25
Discounts across gym Financial wellbeing Free physiotherapy
To support continued social mobility, the
memberships and M&S advice and debt accessed via self-referral
year ahead – marking the 20th anniversary of
products, including consolidation loans for all colleagues
the partnership with The Prince’s Trust – will
third-party brands
see a focus on translating more placements
into long-term careers at M&S. We are also
Building cancer Shares and M&S Bank offers Practical, emotional, and
further embedding career development into
awareness with free financial support through
the programme and plan to run more
screenings for high- and our industry charity
tailored career events for these colleagues.
medium-risk colleagues partners
Public transport season Payroll giving
tickets and sustainable
travel initiatives
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 42
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
PEOPLE CONTINUED
bring diverse communities together. ExCo
A LEADING EMPLOYER DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION sponsorship was introduced this year to
elevate the networks given their importance
for w ome n
TARGETS to the business.
Network membership has grown by 47%, with
SENIOR MANAGER DIVERSITY over 10,000 members across the eight
In 2023, we set out our ambition to become – Established “Women in Logistics”
networks. The networks have played a crucial
the leading employer for women in retail. network and hosted “Women in Data” Target 2023/24
role in driving our inclusion and diversity
Over 2023/24, we have made good progress events as we aim to improve 50% of senior progress:
strategy and progress through consistent
managers are
against our goal, with M&S the highest- representation and experience of women
50% feedback and challenge, including in
female by 2025/26.
ranking UK company in the Forbes’ Best in typically male-dominated areas.
listening sessions with CEO Stuart Machin,
Place to Work for Women. We have also:
– Gained the Menopause Friendly with actions taken on the back of each one.
Accreditation through menopause
– Made substantial improvements to family
Say pants to the tax
workplace training specialist HenPicked. Target 2023/24
leave policies. M&S almost doubled its
In 2023, in partnership with period-proof
Managers across the business have been 20% of senior progress:
maternity and adoption leave to 26 weeks
underwear brand WUKA and with the
manager roles
offered training to support them to help
at full pay while also increasing paternity 4.3%
support of politicians, charities, business
held by colleagues
their teams and open up conversations
leave from two weeks to six weeks at full
leaders, and likeminded brands, we called on
from ethnic
on the topic.
pay. In May 2023 we also introduced a new
the Government to remove the VAT that
minority
Neonatal Leave policy providing up to 12 – Offered menopause-friendly uniform
currently applies to period pants. We
backgrounds by
weeks of additional leave for any M&S items and, since launching, colleagues
launched a campaign with a public petition,
2030.
colleague whose baby requires specialist have ordered over 95,000 pieces.
achieving 10,000 signatures in the first 24
neonatal care. Following a listening group with the CEO,
hours, followed by a visit to deliver a letter
– Been accredited as a Menopause- this was fast tracked, so colleagues had LOTS DONE – PROGRESS FOR 2023/24 supporting the campaign to Downing Street
access to the products sooner.
Friendly Employer. At the start of 2023/24 we reset our approach and a session with MPs. In the Autumn
– Added “menopause” as a reason for to DE&I to better equip our leaders across Statement the Chancellor announced that,
– Achieved our target of 50% of leadership
absence following a suggestion through the business to take ownership of driving an from January 2024, period underwear would
roles held by women by 2025.
our “Straight to Stuart” colleague inclusive workplace. Our new DE&I framework be zero-rated for VAT.
– Ensured strong representation of women
suggestion portal. has targets and KPIs to support our ESG
in our talent pipelines with 60% of LOTS TO DO, LOTS OF OPPORTUNITY -
commitments, such as reviewing hires,
colleagues on an internal development FOCUS FOR 2024/25
promotions and leaver rates to understand
programme.
diversity trends and take action. Our focus is on improving the experience
and representation of colleagues from ethnic
This year the EMERGE Talent programme was
minority backgrounds, while developing
launched, which aims to equip colleagues from
plans that support colleagues with
ethnic minority backgrounds with additional
accessibility challenges, those with caring
skills, knowledge and confidence to take
responsibilities and colleagues working later
ownership of their personal and career
in their lives to be at their best.
development. 30 colleagues joined the first
cohort which launched in March. Following the launch of the EMERGE Talent
programme we plan to roll-out the programme
Growing colleague networks to team managers in the coming year.
Colleague networks are an important way to
build communities in the workplace and help In the coming year, ExCo colleague network
to make everyone feel at home while at work. Sponsors and Co-Chairs will be operating to
M&S operates a number of colleague-led a Network Charter so that we have a clear
networks, spanning racial, family, cultural, framework and always aim higher in how we
sexual and gender identities – designed to represent our colleague communities.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 43
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
COMMUNITY
FUNDS DONATED AND RAISED SUPPORTING YOUNG PEOPLE’S
me nt a l he a lt h
£5.6m
funds donated by M&S in 2023/24
Five children in every UK classroom featuring on Loose Women, Capital Radio, This year, we will be engaging our
struggle with their mental health, and this Sky News and the Metro, as well as across colleagues and customers even further
£2.1m issue consistently tops the list of things all our customer channels online, in store with a regular drumbeat of activity
that our customers and colleagues say they and through social media. Since the launch including colleague fundraising events,
funds raised through customers, care strongly about. of the partnership, M&S has donated a total donations from products and amplifying
colleagues and partners in 2023/24 of £1.7m and this year YoungMinds has seen Hello Yellow Day, YoungMinds’ national
Through our partnership with YoungMinds,
a 4% increase in brand awareness with moment for World Mental Health Day
we want to raise awareness of the mental
young people, a 15% increase in visits to its in October.
health support available to young people.
website and an 83% increase in calls to their
LOTS DONE - PROGRESS FOR 2023/24 Our goal is to raise £5m over three years so
Parents Helpline, showing that more people
YoungMinds can double its support to
To increase our community impact, we reset are accessing the support they need.
reach seven million young people and the
our Community Strategy in 2023/24,
adults in their lives across the UK. We will
launching our new headline partnership with
also help our 32m customers and 64,000
YoungMinds and reshaping our existing
colleagues understand more about young
programmes and partnerships. Previously we
people’s mental health so they feel able to
worked with too many charities and we
have better conversations with those
lacked focus. Now, we are collectively
around them who may be struggling.
focused on YoungMinds, we have made our
Sparks charity partners more personalised,
Our partnership has resonated strongly
and reshaped existing partnerships, each
with M&S colleagues; within just a few
with a much clearer purpose and scope.
months, 400 have completed Trusted Adult
training – a 40-minute webinar on how to
This year we donated £5.6m to charitable
recognise when young people are
causes. This includes a £1m donation to
struggling – and over 130 colleagues have
YoungMinds at the launch of our partnership
joined the YoungMinds Network to drive the
and £2m donated to our 36 Sparks charity
delivery of the partnership and access
partners in the UK (M&S donates 1p every
peer-to-peer support. With customers we
time a customer shops through our Sparks
grew the conversation about young
loyalty scheme). The remaining amount was
people’s health with the partnership
donated to our long-term partners through
cause-related product donations, including
Breast Cancer Now, Shelter, Macmillan and
Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity.
Our customers and colleagues raised £700,000
for YoungMinds, as well as supporting
Macmillan, and this year we relaunched our
local fundraising in stores across the UK.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 44
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
GOVERNANCE
IN THIS SECTION
46 Governance
47 ESG Committee Review
Image: M&S British
Red Diamond Strawberries
Marks and Spencer Group plc
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
GOVERNANCE
Accountability for the delivery Strategic responsibility
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Delivery of our ESG strategy and Plan A is
of our ESG strategy sits with our
embedded across our nine strategic
CEO, while the Board provides priorities and through our business-unit led
operating model. We utilise data, digital and BOARD
oversight through our ESG
technology solutions and innovation to
Committee.
support the delivery of our ESG strategy, and
data aids ESG decision-making so we focus Ultimate responsibility for both risk management and ESG framework, including
on the issues that are material to our those risks and opportunities related to climate change. Approves the Company’s
Effective and robust governance underpins
business, and matter most to customers and ESG strategy, including the business-wide target to become net zero.
our ESG Strategy and there is a clear
wider stakeholders.
governance framework in place to support
delivery of it. The ExCo, led by the CEO, is
The ESG projects and programmes inform
accountable for setting and delivering the
decisions across all levels and departments.
strategy, with individual Directors
Our business-unit led operating model
accountable for delivery within their areas, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BOARD COMMITTEES
ensures full accountability for ESG and a
and the Corporate Affairs Director
straightforward way of working that is
accountable for overall delivery of the
embedded into the business, led by the
programme. The ESG Committee provides a EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ESG COMMITTEE
respective Managing Directors.
strategic oversight role in challenging The CEO is responsible for overseeing Responsible for ensuring the Company’s
strategy and supporting delivery plans. Our central ESG team plays a critical internal the development of business-wide ESG strategy and associated governance
The ESG Business Forum supports the oversight role, both supporting the business strategic goals and is accountable for the is fit for purpose, and that plans are in
accountability and decision-making units, and holding them to account for company’s business-wide ESG programme. place and reported on. Advises the Audit
functions of the ExCo and ESG Committee. performance and reporting. This ESG team Executive Committee members are & Risk Committee on ESG related risks.
sits within the wider Corporate Affairs team,
individually responsible for setting ESG
LOTS DONE- 2023/24 HIGHLIGHTS reflecting the continued volume of AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
strategy and putting in place mechanisms
Having reset Plan A in 2021, we have environmental regulations, the range of to deliver the strategy. Executive Responsible for the effectiveness of
mobilised the delivery of our net zero goal external stakeholders and the strong link Committee members are individually the risk management process. Receives
and priority actions across the organisation. between ESG and the M&S brand. As a result, responsible for reviewing and confirming updates from business leadership and
In 2023/24, we focused on extending the it also works closely with the business units, ESG-related risks in their own areas. reviews the principal risks twice a year.
scope of Plan A to areas about which we Marketing, Risk and Internal Audit, Finance,
know our customers care most. We are now Legal and Communications teams.
sourcing clearer data to support our net zero
ESG Business Forum
goal and related targets and map out more
The ESG Business Forum - a cross-functional
accurately how to achieve them. We have MANAGEMENT FORUMS
group of senior leaders and subject matter
also started work to better understand the
experts across M&S that plays a key role in
implications of new regulations that will
tracking ESG progress against targets - was
affect the business, including ESG disclosure BUSINESS AND FUNCTIONAL ESG BUSINESS FORUM
set up in 2023. It meets on a quarterly basis
requirements and deforestation. LEADERSHIP TEAMS Responsible for driving progress
to review ESG performance, discuss cross-
Responsible for the delivery of the ESG against the workstreams and targets of
business topics, unblock issues and approve
strategy in their respective areas of the the Company’s ESG programme and
items before they go forward to our ExCo
business. Responsible for the risk managing ESG-related risks.
and ESG Committee. Each meeting focuses
register of their business, and for
on performance updates, risk management Meets quarterly to review progress
managing and resourcing mitigating
and innovating our delivery of our net zero against targets and provide updates to
activities.
goal, as well as topical updates. the Executive Committee and ESG
Committee.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 46
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR ESG STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ESG COMMITTEE REVIEW
DELIVERY OF OUR ESG STRATEGY progress against agreed metrics and targets impact the business in the coming years and
have been clear and the Committee has used are supportive of the trials with Artificial
The focus for the Committee this year has
these to challenge gaps or issues, and also Intelligence that can help us spot positive or
very much been on driving delivery, and the
champion further progress as appropriate. negative ESG trends.
Committee has welcomed a more granular
The Committee has received updates on the
and engaging level of reporting throughout
FOCUS FOR THE YEAR AHEAD
work undertaken to develop a more detailed
the year – the benefits of which can be seen
level of understanding of our carbon In the coming year we will be reviewing our
in this report.
reduction glidepath, particularly in relation carbon reduction glidepath given the
We reviewed the strategic progress being to the harder-to-measure Scope 3 emissions improved understanding we have of our
made across each business – Food and which make up 94% of our total inventory. Scope 3 emissions, as well as understanding
Clothing & Home – as well as in our store the new FLAG guidance, and considering
BRAND BUILDING AND ENGAGEMENT
estate and logistics network. In Food we whether we need to expand our ESG strategy
discussed a wide range of topics including The Committee has received quarterly beyond its current areas of focus. In addition,
reducing packaging units and innovations in updates from the ESG Reputation Tracker we will consider the ESG Reputation Tracker
alternative packaging. In Clothing & Home, showing how customers view M&S’ ESG data to ensure we are effectively
we challenged the business to go further on programme and what matters most to them. communicating to customers and wider
“
plastic reduction in the supply chain and We now have a year’s worth of data so can see stakeholders on the issues that matter most
As ESG Committee Chair it has
debated our customer circularity trends and this will be used in the coming to them. We will continue to hold the ExCo to
been great to see another year proposition. Across our store estate we now year to further refine the Plan A customer account for delivery of agreed targets and
have greater visibility of carbon emissions communication and “brand building” challenge where there are gaps.
of positive momentum and
data on a store-by-store basis and the strategy. In addition, through reviewing the
Underpinning all of this will be constructive
progress towards delivery of Committee reviewed progress on carbon results of in-store ESG messaging audits, the
challenge for the ExCo and their teams to
emission reduction in the logistics network Committee has challenged the business to
our net zero and wider ESG
make sure we continue to always aim higher,
following the integration of Gist. In regards create a clear and aligned way of
goals. Plan A has a critical role innovate, and use the best “outside-in”
to social issues, the Committee reviewed how communicating to customers “at the shelf
stimulation from external leaders and
to play in delivering exceptional the business is making strides to ensure it is edge”, so that Plan A has a consistent and
subject matter experts.
doing all it can to protect human rights, and recognisable identity across all touchpoints.
product and upholding our
supported the reset of the Community
OUTSIDE-IN AND RISKS
trusted brand. From sourcing strategy and fantastic anchor partnership Tamara Ingram
with YoungMinds. The Committee has been fortunate enough
and making our products with
to have welcomed external speakers and
care, to delivering sustainable, PERFORMANCE UPDATES experts and heard their views as part of our Chair of the ESG Committee
AND REPORTING
horizon-scanning of ESG themes, trends and
profitable growth through
The Committee has been encouraged to threats. We have heard valued contributions
progressing our carbon
see an improvement to the internal ESG and conducted healthy debate on a range of
reduction programme, I thank governance and data management subjects and these outside-in views have
processes flowing from the regular cadence provided useful challenge and insight, which
the ExCo and their teams for
of meetings and disclosure from the ESG contributes to the refinement of our
continuing to embed the ESG Business Forum to the ExCo and then the strategy. In addition to the views of experts,
Committee, including improvements to the the Committee has discussed and assessed
programme into the business.
basis of reporting for ESG-related ESG risks and opportunities, in order to
As Stuart says, lots done, lots
disclosures. The resulting quarterly advise the Audit & Risk Committee in their
to do and lots of opportunity! performance updates showing in-year half-year and full-year review of principal
risks. We have also been made aware of the
increasingly complex and changing ESG
regulations and standards that are likely to
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 47
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ESG DATA
IN THIS SECTION
49 ESG data introduction
50 Data sheets and indices
62 I ndependent assurance statement
Image:
M&S Leeds White Rose
Marks and Spencer Group plc
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ESG DATA INTRODUCTION
The metrics in this report REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY We have updated targets for each financial This data is subject to a separate external
M&S has access to a Revolving Credit Facility year between now and financial year 2025/26. assurance process scheduled to be
are those we believe are the
(RCF), agreed in December 2021 and updated The sustainability-related KPIs remain published in autumn 2024.
most relevant and material to in November 2022. Under the terms of the unchanged following the November 2022
We will publish our Basis of Reporting
RCF, the applicable interest rate may be update and focus on material emissions
the sustainability challenges we
document for our RCF sustainability-related
adjusted each year (downward or upward) hotspots aligned with our net zero roadmap,
face. They also reflect what our KPIs, outlining the scope and methodology,
depending on whether we meet all, some or and which lend themselves to annual
alongside our performance update in
customers, colleagues and none of the targets in place across the four updates during the lifetime of the facility.
autumn 2024.
agreed sustainability KPIs.
investors see as important to
our business.
The majority of the data and statements in
this report relate to our most recent financial SUSTAINABILITY KPIS
year (2023/24) and the previous financial year
(2022/23). Where data relates to the calendar
year or another period, this is clearly stated.
Note that percentage change and summed
total figures in this report may not align
precisely to the figures provided in data
tables due to rounding. Proportion of soy used in Proportion of polyester Cumulative metric tonnes Cumulative number of
animal feed sourced from used in Clothing & Home of Scope 1 & 2 GHG plastic pieces (units) that
Detail on how the data in this report has been
physically certified products from verified emissions reduced from have been removed from
prepared is in our Basis of Reporting 2024.
deforestation and recycled sources the property estate the packaging portfolio
conversion-free supply through the (calculated from the start
Go to our Basis of Reporting 2024
chains implementation of of the financial year
emissions-saving schemes 2021/22)
To note, the performance updates published (calculated against a
in this report are not performance updates baseline of property
against M&S Revolving Credit Facility estate emissions for the
Sustainability KPIs. financial year 2021/22)
Target for financial year Target for financial year Target for financial year Target for financial year
ending March 2026 ending March 2026 ending March 2026 ending March 2026
100% 100% 34,000 tCO e (cumulative 405m units
2
reduction) (cumulative reduction)
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 49
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ENVIRONMENT – NET ZERO
2023/24 2022/23 BASE YEAR ASSESSMENT
METRIC TARGET PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE ^ PERFORMANCE OF PROGRESS REFERENCE
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
Total energy consumption (M&S Group) – 1,458,769** 1,471,503 1,499,147
SCOPE 1 & 2 GHG EMISSIONS
Direct emissions from operations – 207** 225 240 IFRS draft S2-21(a)(i)
TCFD Guidance Table A2.1
(Scope 1) (000 tonnes CO e)
2
Location-based indirect energy emissions – 154** 137 296 IFRS draft S2-21(a)(i)
TCFD Guidance Table A2.1
from operations (Scope 2) (000 tonnes CO e)
2
Total location-based Scope 1 & 2 emissions 55% reduction by 2029/30 361** 362 536 IFRS draft S2-21(a)(i)
(000 tonnes CO e) (vs 2016/17 base year) 33% reduction 32% reduction TCFD Guidance Table A2.1
2 against base year against base year
Market-based indirect energy emissions from – 233** 20 NA IFRS draft S2-21(a)(i)
TCFD Guidance Table A2.1
operations (Scope 2) (000 tonnes CO e)
2
Total market-based Scope 1 & 2 emissions – 439** 245 NA IFRS draft S2-21(a)(i)
(000 tonnes CO e) TCFD Guidance Table A2.1
2
Total location-based emissions per 1,000 sq – 18.1** 18.5 NA IFRS draft S2-21(a)(ii)
TCFD Guidance Table A2.1
ft of salesfloor (tonnes CO e per sq ft)
2
Total market-based emissions per 1,000 sq ft – 22.1** 12.5 NA IFRS draft S2-21(a)(ii)
TCFD Guidance Table A2.1
of salesfloor (tonnes CO e per sq ft)
2
SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS
Total Scope 3 GHG emissions 55% reduction by 2029/30 - 5.2* 5.0* TCFD Guidance Table A2.1
(vs 2016/17 base year)
(million tonnes CO e)
2
* F Igures have been restated due to methodological and data improvements. Going forward we will
report Scope 3 emissions a year in arrears.
Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
** Assured by DNV.
^ Figures for previous reporting periods are restated to reflect data accuracy improvements.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 50
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ENVIRONMENT – NET ZERO
LOCATION-BASED SCOPE 1 & SCOPE 2 GHG
EMISSIONS (000 tonnes CO e) ENERGY (MWh)
2
2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE^ 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE^ REFERENCE
FLEET 142 145 598,557 598,927
Fuel 140** 143 598,557** 598,927 SASB FB-FR-110a.1
Refrigerant leakage 2** 2 - - SASB FB-FR-110b.1
UK & ROI PROPERTY 190 196 814,356 838,546
Refrigerant leakage 25** 36 - - SASB FB-FR-110b.1
Gas 37** 41 204,397** 222,404 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(1)
Heating fuel oils 1** 1 2,914** 3,441 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(1)
LPG 0** † 0 163** 169 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(1)
District heating and cooling 1** 1 2,830** 3,208 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(1)
Generated electricity (diesel) 0** † 0 92** 202 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(1)
Generated electricity 0** † - 5,309** 5,021 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(3)
(solar PV)
Purchased electricity (grid) 111** 1 533,887** 4,330 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(2)
Purchased electricity (renewable) 15** 117 64,650** 599,770 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(3)
Biomass (wood pellets) 0** † - 113** - SASB FB-FR-130a.1(1)
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY 29 21 45,856 34,030
Refrigerant leakage 1** 3 - - SASB FB-FR-110b.1
District heating and cooling 0** † 0 2,057** 1,993 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(1)
Generated electricity (diesel) 0** † 0 103** 160 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(1)
Purchased electricity (grid) 28** 18 43,695** 31,876 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(2)
Total 361** 362 1,458,769** 1,471,503
^ Figures for previous reporting periods are restated to reflect data accuracy improvements.
** Assured by DNV.
† Emissions for some energy sources appear as a 0 due to data rounding.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 51
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ENVIRONMENT – NET ZERO
METRIC 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE REFERENCE
GROUP
Group electricity use (MWh) 647,738 641,361 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(2)/(3)
Group electricity that is renewable 11%** 94% SASB FB-FR-130a.1(3)
(% of total global electricity use)
Group renewable electricity that is generated 8% 1% SASB FB-FR-130a.1(3)
(% of total global renewable electricity use)
Group renewable electricity that is purchased via green 92% 93% SASB FB-FR-130a.1(3)
tariffs or certificates (% of total global renewable
electricity use)
UK & ROI STORES
UK & ROI store electricity use (MWh) 533,371 540,216 SASB FB-FR-130a.1(2)/(3)
UK & ROI store electricity that is renewable 12%** 100% SASB FB-FR-130a.1(3)
(% of total UK & ROI store electricity use)
UK & ROI renewable store electricity that is generated 2% 0% SASB FB-FR-130a.1(3)
(% of total UK & ROI renewable store electricity use)
% of UK & ROI renewable store electricity that is purchased 98% 100% SASB FB-FR-130a.1(3)
via green tariffs or certificates (% of total UK & ROI renewable
store electricity use)
** Assured by DNV.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 52
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ENVIRONMENT – FOOD
FOOD
ASSESSMENT
METRIC TARGET 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE OF PROGRESS REFERENCE
LOW-IMPACT FARMING
% of UK growers certified to LEAF Marque (% of all UK - 96% 96%
growers for M&S)
Average % of core Landscape and Nature module - 90% 86%
practices reported to be in place (Average % of all UK
LEAF Marque growers)
Average % of core Integrated Pest Management module - 88% 69%
practices reported to be in place (Average % of all UK
LEAF Marque growers)
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Total soy (direct and indirect) used in own-brand products - Indirect soy: 104,158^^ Indirect soy: 99,800^^ SASB FB-FR-430a.3
Direct soy: 2092 Direct soy: 500^^ UK Soy Manifesto
(tonnes)
Soy sourced from verified deforestation- 100% by 2025/26 66%^^ 39%^^ SASB FB-FR-430a.3
UK Soy Manifesto
and conversion-free (vDCF) supply chains
NET
(% of total direct and indirect soy) ZERO
Soy sourced from physically certified deforestation- 100% by 2025/26 71%^^ 46%^^ SASB FB-FR-430a.3
UK Soy Manifesto
and conversion-free supply chains (% of indirect soy)
Total amount of palm oil used in own-brand - 5,069 ^^ 5,121 *** ^^
products (tonnes)
RSPO Certified Sustainable Palm Oil with 100% by 2025/26 98% ** ^^ † † 98%*** ^^ † † SASB FB-FR-430a.3
Segregated status (% of palm oil)
NET
ZERO
** Assured by DNV.
*** Assured by DNV in 2023 as published in the M&S 2023 Sustainability Report.
^^ Figures are calendar year.
Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
† † % of Palm Oil used in own-brand food products.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 53
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ENVIRONMENT – FOOD CONTINUED
FOOD
ASSESSMENT
METRIC TARGET 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE OF PROGRESS REFERENCE
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Fairtrade-certified tea and coffee Maintain 100% 100% 100% SASB FB-FR-430a.2
TCFD Metric
(% of all M&S tea and coffee products)
Fairtrade Premium generated by M&S sales for Fairtrade - £2,218,212 £2,106,814
producers (£)
100% of cocoa (by volume) used in own-brand products to Maintain 100% 100% 100% SASB FB-FR-430a.2
be sourced through sustainability schemes
Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 54
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ENVIRONMENT – CLOTHING & HOME
C&H
ASSESSMENT
METRIC TARGET 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE OF PROGRESS REFERENCE
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
Cotton used in Clothing & Home products from more 100% by 2025/26 Clothing 100% Clothing 100% SASB CG-AA-440a.4(2)
Home 93% Home 90% TCFD Metric
responsible sources (% of all cotton used)
Polyester used in Clothing & Home products from 100% by 2025/26 70%* 49% SASB CG-AA-440a.4(2)
TCFD Metric
verified recycled sources (% of all polyester used)
NET
ZERO
MMCF used in Clothing & Home products from more 100% by 2025/26 47% 45% SASB CG-AA-440a.4(2)
responsible sources (% of all MMCF used)
Leather used in Clothing & Home products from Leather 100% by 2030/31 100% 97%^^ SASB CG-AA-440a.4(2)
Working Group (LWG) certified finishing tanneries (% of
all leather used)
Wool from more responsible sources (% of all wool used 50% by 2025/26, 29% 13%
100% by 2030/31
in clothing products)
SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING
Clothing & Home Tier 1 and Tier 2 suppliers with a 50% of invited suppliers verify Tier 1 – 77% Tier 1 – 72% SASB CG-AA-430a.2
their Higg FEM 2022 module Tier 2 – 86% Tier 2 – 86%
verified Higg FEM (Facility Environmental Module) result
NET
ZERO
* T his data is subject to a discret assurance process linked to our financing
and is scheduled to be published in autumn 2024.
Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
^^ Figures are calendar year.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 55
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ENVIRONMENT – WASTE & CIRCULARITY
FOOD C&H
ASSESSMENT
METRIC TARGET 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE OF PROGRESS REFERENCE
FOOD WASTE
Total food not sold (tonnes) – 20,800** 18,204 ***
Total food not sold that was fit for human consumption – 12,457 10,576
(tonnes)
Total food not sold that was not fit for human – 8343 7,628
consumption (tonnes)
Total food not sold that was fit for human consumption – 1,825 2,201
which was not redistributed (tonnes)
Food waste 50% reduction 10,168** 9,829*** SASB FB-FR-150a.1
by 2029/30
(tonnes)
44% redu ction 46% reduction
NET against base year against base year
ZERO
Food not sold that was fit for human consumption 100% by 2025/26 85% 79%
which was redistributed to charities, community
NET
organisations or colleagues (food surplus) (% of food ZERO
not sold that was fit for human consumption)
Food surplus (tonnes/meal equivalents) – 10,632 tonnes** 8,375 tonnes***
25.3m meals** 19.9m meals***
SHWOPPING
Items collected through Shwopping (number) – 302,857 308,555
NET
ZERO
OPERATIONAL WASTE
Total operational waste (tonnes) – 69,808** 69,000***
Operational waste to landfill (% of total operational Maintain 0% 0%** 0%***
waste)
** Assured by DNV.
Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
*** Assured by DNV in 2023 as published in the M&S 2023 Sustainability Report.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 56
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
ENVIRONMENT – WASTE & CIRCULARITY CONTINUED
FOOD C&H
ASSESSMENT OF
METRIC TARGET 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE PROGRESS REFERENCE
PACKAGING
Group total primary packaging placed on the market (all – 114,000^^ 112,000^^ FB-FR-430a.4,
CG-MR-410a.3
packaging materials including clothing hangers) (tonnes)
Own-brand – 108,000^^ 103,000^^
Branded – 6,000^^ 9,000^^
Group total primary plastic packaging placed on the – 37,000^^ 37,000^^ FB-FR-430a.4,
CG-MR-410a.3,
market (includes clothing hangers) (tonnes)
UK Plastics Pact
Own-brand – 36,000^^ 36,000^^
Branded – 1,000^^ 1,000^^
Foods primary plastic packaging placed on the market – 30,000^^ 30,000^^ FB-FR-430a.4,
UK Plastics Pact
(tonnes)
Own-brand – 29,000^^ 29,000^^
Branded – 1,000^^ 1,000^^
Clothing & Home primary plastic packaging placed on – 2,000^^ 2,000^^ CG-MR-410a.3,
UK Plastics Pact
the market (excluding hangers) (tonnes)
Own-brand – 2,000^^ 2,000^^
Branded – 0^^ 0^^
Plastic clothing hangers (including both new hangers and – 4,000^^ 5,000^^ CG-MR-410a.3,
UK Plastics Pact
used hangers that are collected and returned to suppliers
for reuse) (tonnes)
Number of individual pieces of plastic (units) that Remove 1bn units of plastic 144m 97m FB-FR-430a.4,
packaging by the end of 2027/8, UK Plastics Pact
have been removed from the M&S own-brand
and remove 75m units in 2022/23
packaging portfolio
NET
ZERO
Food own-brand primary plastic packaging that is 100% by 2025/26 91% ** ^^ 93%*** ^^ FB-FR-430a.4,
widely recyclable in the UK (% of total UK packaging
NET
by weight) ZERO
Clothing & Home own-brand primary plastic packaging 100% by 2025/26 80% ** ^^ - CG-MR-410a.3,
that is widely recyclable in the UK (% of total UK
NET
packaging by weight) ZERO
^^ Figures are calendar year. *** A ssured by DNV in 2023 as published in Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
** Assured by DNV. the M&S 2023 Sustainability Report.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 57
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
SOCIAL – ANIMAL WELFARE
FOOD
ASSESSMENT
METRIC TARGET 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE OF PROGRESS REFERENCE
ANIMAL WELFARE
Ranking amongst retailers with highest number of Maintain #1 position #1 #1
products within M&S Food product range adhering to
RSPCA Assured certification
Tier in the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare Maintain Tier 1 Tier 2* Tier 1
(BBFAW)
* W e retained our leadership position on the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare,
Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
despite significant changes to the assessment scope.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 58
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
SOCIAL – HEALTHIER FOOD
FOOD
ASSESSMENT
METRIC TARGET 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE OF PROGRESS REFERENCE
HEALTHIER FOOD
Sales of plant-based products (£) £75m by 2024/25 £78m £65m TCFD Metric
NET
ZERO
Food sales from healthier products 70% by 2024/25 69.8% - SASB FB-FR-260a.1
(Tonnage)
Remarksable products designated Eat Well Maintain 33% 58% 57%
(% of Remarksable range)
Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 59
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
SOCIAL - PEOPLE
ASSESSMENT
METRIC TARGET 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE OF PROGRESS REFERENCE
DIVERSITY, EQUITY & INCLUSION
Employees who are female (% of all employees) – 68.1% 68.5% SASB CG-MR-330a.1
Senior managers who are female 50% by 2025/26 50% 44.8% SASB CG-MR-330a.1
(% of all senior managers)
Senior managers from ethnic minorities 20% by 2030* 4.3% 5.4% SASB CG-MR-330a.1
(% of all senior managers)
Board directors who are female Maintain 40% 55% 55% Listing Rule 9.8.6R (9)
(% of all Board directors)
Senior Board roles (CEO/Co-CEO/CFO/ – 1 1 Listing Rule 9.8.6R (9)
Chair/SID) occupied by women (number)
Gender pay gap (mean) (%) – 12.6% 12.5%
EMPLOYABILITY
Marks & Start work placements started – 693 748
Individuals completing Marks & Start work placements – 81% 80%
who were offered an employment
contract at M&S (% of all placements)
* W e have reset our target for ethnic minority representation in senior manager roles,
and aim to have 12% ethnic minorty representation by 2027 (in line with the Parker
Review) and 20% by 2030 - for more information see page 85 of the M&S Annual
Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
Report.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 60
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
SOCIAL - COMMUNITY
ASSESSMENT
METRIC TARGET 2023/24 PERFORMANCE 2022/23 PERFORMANCE OF PROGRESS REFERENCE
COMMUNITY
Funds donated by M&S (£) – £5.6m** £5.8m***
Funds raised through customers, colleagues – £2.1m** £2.3m***
and partners (£)
** Assured by DNV.
Target missed Behind or pathway in progress On track or achieved No target
*** Assured by DNV in 2023 as published in the M&S 2023 Sustainability Report.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 61
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO THE DIRECTORS OF MARKS AND SPENCER PLC
Marks and Spencer plc (“M&S”) We have not performed any work, and do not STANDARD AND LEVEL OF ASSURANCE
express any conclusion, on any other We performed a limited assurance RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE
commissioned DNV Business
information that may be published in the engagement of specified data and
DIRECTORS OF M&S AND DNV
Assurance Services UK Limited Report or on M&S website for the current information using the ‘Greenhouse Protocol
reporting period or for previous periods. – A Corporate Accounting and Reporting
(“DNV”, “us” or “we”) to conduct a
Standard’ (revised 2015) and international
limited assurance engagement BASIS OF OUR CONCLUSION
assurance best practice including the THE DIRECTORS OF M&S HAVE SOLE
We are required to plan and perform our
over Selected Information International Standard on Assurance RESPONSIBILITY FOR:
work in order to consider the risk of material
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 – ‘Assurance – Preparing and presenting the Selected
presented in the M&S ESG misstatement of the Selected Information;
Engagements other than Audits and Reviews information in accordance with the
our work included, but was not restricted to:
Report 2024 (the “Report”) for of Historical Financial Information’ (revised) Criteria;
the reporting period 2 April – Conducting interviews with M&S issued by the International Auditing and – Designing, implementing and
management to obtain an understanding Assurance Standards Board. To ensure maintaining effective internal controls
2023 to 30 March 2024.
of the key processes, systems and controls consistency in our assurance process, we over the information and data,
in place to generate, aggregate and report conducted our work in accordance with resulting in the preparation of the
the Selected Information; DNV’s assurance methodology, Verisustain™, Selected Information that is free from
applying only the pertinent sections of the
– Performing limited substantive testing on material misstatements;
Our Conclusion: On the basis of the work
protocol relevant to the specific purpose of
a selective basis of the Selected – Measuring and reporting the Selected
undertaken, nothing came to our attention
the activity. This methodology ensures
Information to check that data had been Information based on their established
to suggest that the Selected Information is
compliance with ethical requirements and
appropriately measured, recorded, Criteria; and
not fairly stated and has not been prepared,
mandates planning and execution of the
collated and reported; For the “RSPO
in all material respects, in accordance with assurance engagement to obtain the desired – Contents and statements contained
Certified Sustainable Palm Oil with
the Criteria. level of assurance. within the Report and the Criteria.
Segregated status (% of all palm oil)” metric
Our responsibility is to plan and perform
This conclusion relates only to the Selected the source evidence checked was the RSPO DNV applies its own management standards
our work to obtain limited assurance
Information, and is to be read in the context certification held by the palm oil suppliers and compliance policies for quality control,
about whether the Selected Information
of this Independent Limited Assurance provided by a M&S third party consultant which are based on the principles enclosed
has been prepared in accordance with
Report, in particular the inherent limitations contracted by M&S. within ISO IEC 17029:2019 - Conformity
the Criteria and to report to M&S in the
explained overleaf.
– Reviewing that the evidence, Assessment - General principles and
form of an independent limited
Our observations and areas for improvement measurements and their scope provided to requirements for validation and verification
assurance conclusion, based on the work
will be raised in a separate report to M&S us by M&S for the Selected Information is bodies, and accordingly maintains a
performed and the evidence obtained.
Management. prepared in line with the Criteria; comprehensive system of quality control
We have not been responsible for the
including documented policies and
– Assessing the appropriateness of the preparation of the Report.
SELECTED INFORMATION procedures regarding compliance with
Criteria for the Selected Information; and
The scope and boundary of our work is ethical requirements, professional
restricted to the Indicators included within – Reading the Report and narrative standards, and applicable legal and
the Report for the 2024 Reporting period accompanying the Selected Information regulatory requirements.
(the “Selected Information”), listed in the within it with regard to the Criteria.
The procedures performed in a limited
Appendix. In performing these activities, we did not
assurance engagement vary in nature and
come across limitations to the scope of the
To assess the Selected Information, which are shorter in extent than for a reasonable
agreed assurance engagement.
includes an assessment of the risk of assurance engagement. Consequently, the
material misstatement in the Report, we have We found a limited number of non-material level of assurance obtained in a limited
used M&S Basis of Reporting (the “Criteria”), errors and these were corrected prior to assurance engagement is substantially lower
which can be found here. inclusion in the Report. than the assurance that would have been
obtained if a reasonable assurance
engagement had been performed.
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 62
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
DISCLAIMERS
The assurance provided by DNV is limited to OUR COMPETENCE, INHERENT LIMITATIONS DNV SUPPLY CHAIN AND
the selected metrics and information
INDEPENDENCE AND PRODUCT ASSURANCE
specified in the scope of the engagement.
QUALITY CONTROL
DNV has not conducted an assessment of the
reporting organisation’s overall adherence to
reporting principles or the preparation of the
report. Therefore, no conclusions should be
DNV established policies and DNV’s assurance engagements are DNV Business Assurance Services UK
drawn regarding the reporting organization’s
procedures are designed to ensure that based on the assumption that the data Limited is part of DNV – Supply Chain
compliance with reporting principles or the
DNV, its personnel and, where and information provided by M&S to us and Product Assurance, a global
quality of the overall report. The assurance
applicable, others are subject to as part of our review have been provided provider of certification, verification,
provided by DNV is based on the selected
independence requirements (including in good faith, is true, complete, assessment and training services,
indicators and information made available to
personnel of other entities of DNV) and sufficient, and authentic, and is free from enabling customers and stakeholders to
us at the time of the engagement. DNV
maintain independence where required material misstatements. Because of the make critical decisions with confidence.
assumes no responsibility for any changes or
by relevant ethical requirements. This selected nature (sampling) and other
updates made to the indicators or
engagement work was carried out by an inherent limitations of both procedures
information after the completion of the
independent team of sustainability and systems of internal control, there
assurance engagement.
assurance professionals. Our multi- remains the unavoidable risk that errors
disciplinary team consisted of or irregularities, possibly significant, may
USE AND DISTRIBUTION OF OUR
professionals with a combination of not have been detected. The
INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE
environmental and sustainability engagement excludes the sustainability
REPORT
assurance experience. management, performance, and
This report is intended solely for the
reporting practices of the Company’s
information and use of the Directors of M&S
suppliers, contractors, and any third
and is not intended to be and should not be
parties mentioned in the Report. We
used by anyone other than these specified
understand that the reported financial
parties. DNV expressly disclaims any liability
data, governance and related
or co-responsibility for any decision a person
information are based on statutory
or an entity may make based on this
disclosures and Audited Financial
Independent Limited Assurance Report.
Statements, which are subject to a
For and on behalf of DNV Business separate independent statutory audit
Assurance Services UK Limited process. We did not review financial
disclosures and data as they are not
London, UK
within the scope of our assurance
3 June 2024 engagement.
Antonella Papapicco Holly Wallis-Copley
Lead Verifier Technical Reviewer
DNV Business DNV Business
Assurance Services Assurance Services
UK Limited UK Limited
DNV-2024-ASR-C695708
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 63
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
APPENDIX: SELECTED INFORMATION
THE SCOPE AND BOUNDARY OF OUR WORK IS RESTRICTED TO THE SELECTED INFORMATION, LISTED BELOW.
METRICS REPORTED VALUE UNIT
Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions
Direct emissions from operations (Scope 1) 207 000 tonnes CO2e
Location-based indirect energy emissions from operations (Scope 2) 154 000 tonnes CO2e
Total location-based Scope 1 and 2 emissions 361 000 tonnes CO2e
Market-based indirect energy emissions from operations 233 000 tonnes CO2e
Total market-based Scope 1 and 2 emissions 439 000 tonnes CO2e
Total location-based GHG emissions per 1,000 sq. ft of salesfloor 18.1 tCO2e per 1,000 sq. ft of salesfloor
Total market-based GHG emissions per 1,000 sq. ft of salesfloor 22.1 tCO2e per 1,000 sq. ft of salesfloor
Energy Consumption
Total energy consumption (M&S Group) 1,458,769 MWh
Fleet
Fuel 598,557 MWh
Fuel 140 000 tonnes CO2e
Refrigerant leakage 2 000 tonnes CO2e
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 64
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
THE SCOPE AND BOUNDARY OF OUR WORK IS RESTRICTED TO THE SELECTED INFORMATION, LISTED BELOW.
METRICS REPORTED VALUE UNIT
UK & ROI Property
Refrigerant leakage 25 000 tonnes CO2e
Gas 204,397 MWh
Gas 37 000 tonnes CO2e
Heating fuel oils 2,914 MWh
Heating fuel oils 1 000 tonnes CO2e
LPG 163 MWh
LPG 0 000 tonnes CO2e
District heating and cooling 2,830 MWh
District heating and cooling 1 000 tonnes CO2e
Generated electricity (diesel) 92 MWh
Generated electricity (diesel) 0 000 tonnes CO2e
Generated electricity (solar PV) 5,309 MWh
Generated electricity (solar PV) 0 000 tonnes CO2e
Purchased electricity (grid) 533,887 MWh
Purchased electricity (grid) 111 000 tonnes CO2e
Purchased electricity (renewable) 64,650 MWh
Purchased electricity (renewable) 15 000 tonnes CO2e
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 65
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
THE SCOPE AND BOUNDARY OF OUR WORK IS RESTRICTED TO THE SELECTED INFORMATION, LISTED BELOW.
METRICS REPORTED VALUE UNIT
Biomass (wood pellets) 113 MWh
Biomass (wood pellets) 0 000 tonnes CO2e
International Property
Refrigerant leakage 1 000 tonnes CO2e
District heating and cooling 2,057 MWh
District heating and cooling 0 000 tonnes CO2e
Generated electricity (diesel) 103 MWh
Generated electricity (diesel) 0 000 tonnes CO2e
Purchased electricity (grid) 43,695 MWh
Purchased electricity (grid) 28 000 tonnes CO2e
Group
Group electricity that is renewable 11 % of total global electricity use
UK and ROI store electricity that is renewable 12 % of total UK and ROI store electricity use
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 66
PERFORMANCE SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE ESG DATA
THE SCOPE AND BOUNDARY OF OUR WORK IS RESTRICTED TO THE SELECTED INFORMATION, LISTED BELOW.
METRICS REPORTED VALUE UNIT
Food Waste
Total food not sold 20,800 Tonnes
Food waste 10,168 Tonnes
Food surplus 10,632 Tonnes
Food surplus 25.3 Million meal equivalents
Operational Waste
Total operational waste 69,808 Tonnes
Operational waste to landfill 0 % of total operational waste
Community
Funds donated by M&S 5.6 £m
Funds raised through customers, colleagues and partners 2.1 £m
Responsible Sourcing
RSPO Certified Sustainable Palm Oil with Segregated status 98 % of palm oil
Packaging
Food own-brand primary plastic packaging that is widely recyclable in the UK 91 % of total UK packaging by weight
Clothing & Home own-brand primary plastic packaging that is widely recyclable in the UK 80 % of total UK packaging by weight
Marks and Spencer Group plc ESG Report 2024 67